The Founder, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Dr. Boniface Aniebonam has implored the Federal Government to further utilize the vast maritime experience of Mr. Hassan Bello, the Executive Secretary of Nigerian Shippers’ Council, who is due to retire soon, Stressing that the industry presently needed him.According to him Hassan Bello as presently, the most focused and committed of the nation’s Maritime parastatal heads. Dr. Aniebonam gave the advised in a statement he issued in Lagos, describing Hassan Bello as a competent administrator, who is uniquely and professionally endowed in shipping and maritime activities. The NAGAFF Boss stressed that government must not allow such a brain to rust but rather utilize Bello by appointing him into a higher position as minster to be in charge of transportation. He maintained that the industry needs a knowledgeable person like Bello to grow. According to Aniebonam, “it is no longer news that Barrister Hassan Bello shall be leaving the Nigerian Shippers’ Council in the next two weeks, having served his term. Founder of NAGAFF, Dr Boniface Aniebonam It is also not in doubt that Hassan Bello is the most productive Chief Executive Officer of the government of the Federation deployed at the maritime transport and cargo administration in Nigeria. “Barrister Hassan Bello is not only a bundle of humility in service; he is competent and professionally endowed in his area of primary assignment. Therefore, it shall be strategic on the part of NAGAFF from its vantage position to suggest to the Honourable Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi that Barrister Hassan Bello is the most appropriate and qualified professional person to take after him and continue with the levels of the positive impact he has made in the Transportation Ministry. “This simply means that he is well-positioned to advise Mr. President in that regard whenever his tenure is ended as the Minister of Transport. “NAGAFF is highly concerned over who becomes the minister of transport. We are concerned because we need a professional as transportation minister who is knowledgeable in port administration and management. “We need a transportation minister who is conversant with port operations and service delivery. We want a transportation minister who understands cargo administration, freight forwarding practices and logistics services.  “We want a transportation minister who understands that corruption is an enemy of Nigeria. We want a transportation minister who can bridge the existing gap between the Finance Ministry and transportation in relation to the formulation of traded goods fiscal policies and customs facilitation.  “We need a transportation minister who can re-jig CRFFN to serve its purpose and bridge the avoidable circumstances around the Customs and CRFFN Acts.  This is because there is a suspected fear of the unknown in the area of territorial boundaries and protection. It is normal in every human endeavor but really it is a mere lack of communication. “The emergence of the CRFFN administration is the tonic the Nigeria Customs Service needed to block all channels of revenue leakages in its operations. The Nigeria Customs Service is losing so much revenue due to the Government, because they are mostly dealing with artificial persons other than natural persons”, Dr. Aniebonam further stressed.