 L –R. Executive Director, North, Fidelity Bank Plc,  Alhaji Hassan Imam; President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad  Ibrahim Lawan, CON. and Managing Director/CEO, Fidelity Bank Plc, Mrs. Nneka Onyeali- Ikpe when EXCO members of Fidelity Bank led by Mrs. Nneka Onyeali –Ikpe paid a courtesy visit to the Office of the Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Distinguished Senator (Dr.) Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan…recently In a bid to foster positive business relationships, Fidelity Bank makes concerted efforts aimed at collaborating with the private and public sectors. The Bank had in the past  paid courtesy visits to industrialists and top government officials such as the Governors of Ogun State, Lagos State, Oyo State, Imo State and Osun State, as well as the Founder of BUA Group, Abdulsamad Rabiu. Just recently, EXCO members of the Bank led by Managing Director/CEO, Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe paid a courtesy visit to the Office of the Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Distinguished Senator (Dr.) Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan. The purpose of the visit was to strengthen the existing relationship and support government’s economic initiatives, L –R. Senator representing Katsina  South Senatorial District, Senator Bello Mandiya; Executive Director, North, Fidelity Bank Plc,  Alhaji Hassan Imam; President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad  Ibrahim Lawan, CON.;  Managing Director/CEO, Fidelity Bank Plc, Mrs. Nneka Onyeali- Ikpe; and Senator representing Jigawa North West Senatorial District, Senator Abdullahi Gumel when EXCO members of Fidelity Bank led by Mrs. Nneka Onyeali –Ikpe paid a courtesy visit to the Office of the Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Distinguished Senator (Dr.) Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan…recently  L –R. Senator representing Katsina  South Senatorial District, Senator Bello Mandiya; Executive Director, North, Fidelity Bank Plc,  Alhaji Hassan Imam; President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad  Ibrahim Lawan, CON.;  Managing Director/CEO, Fidelity Bank Plc, Mrs. Nneka Onyeali- Ikpe; and Senator representing Jigawa North West Senatorial District, Senator Abdullahi Gumel when EXCO members of Fidelity Bank led by Mrs. Nneka Onyeali –Ikpe paid a courtesy visit to the Office of the Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Distinguished Senator (Dr.) Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan…recently 