List of Microfinance Banks that can give you up to N5 million easily  If you intend to boost your business through loans here are the Lists of Microfinance Banks that can give you up to N5 million easily and how to apply for them. What efforts is the Nigerian government making to alleviate the effects of the Coronavirus epidemic in Nigerians and their businesses? Often times people attributes to businesses failure due to insufficient capital to kickstart operations, sustain the business or scale. Despite the crucial role that MSMEs play in the economy, particularly in developing nations like Nigeria, they are usually disadvantaged when it comes to sourcing funds from big commercial banks. Business loans: List of Microfinance Banks that can give you up to N5 million easily 1. AB Microfinance Bank AB Microfinance Bank Nigeria offers entrepreneurs the opportunity to easily access loans in a quick, transparent and efficient environment.  Features and benefits of AB Microfinance Bank loan Loans from NGN3,000,000 to NGN20,000,000 for your existing business
Competitive interest rate starting from 3.0% monthly on reducing balance Disbursement fee of 1.0% of the loan amount Maturity period from 6 to 24 months with equal monthly instalments Broad range of collateral items accepted
Upon submission of all required documents, loan disbursement is guaranteed within 3 working days 2. LAPO Microfinance Bank The LAPO Microfinance Bank “SME Loan” is a credit product designed specifically to support Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (SME) operators in Nigeria. Licensed by CBN in 2010, LAPO Microfinance bank has focused on developing small businesses in Nigeria. With over 1 million entrepreneurs empowered, LAPO microfinance bank has provided entrepreneurs with reliable microfinance services. Irrespective of the sector your enterprise is operating, LAPO MfB is willing to support you with credit facility up to N5,000,000 to expand the enterprise at reasonable interest rates Lapo MFB Loan Requirements Loan application letter Duly completed application form 2 guarantors A valid means of ID (national ID, driver’s license, voter’s card or international passport) Current utility bill 4 recent passport-size photographs Lapo has various kind of loan, we are going to be discussing it to enable you know that loan application that suit your business. Benefits: No collateral Access to funds for your business expansion Flexible repayment structure Training on basic financial management, business planning and customer relations
Expert financial advice available when you need it 3. RenMoney Renmoney, it is a fintech lending company operating with a Microfinance Banking license in Lagos. The company is passionate about leveraging technology to deepen financial inclusion. They offer personal and business loans from ₦6,000 to ₦6,000,000 to employees and entrepreneurs; as well as high-interest savings and fixed deposits With Renmoney, you can apply for a loan of ₦6,000 – ₦6,000,000 without collateral and repay in 3 -24 months. Monthly interest rates range from 2.4% – 9.33% and the maximum Annual Percentage Rate (APR) is 35.76%. No other fees are charged. Features and benefits of RenMoney Microfinance bank loan Fast and convenient loans from ₦6,000 – ₦6,000,000 Flexible repayments from 3 – 24 months
Money in your bank account in minutes
Lower rates and longer tenure on your next loan No paperwork No collateral or guarantor needed No hidden charges – you always see your loan terms before you commit Renmoney Loan Requirements You must fall within ages 22-59 years. You must have an existing and active bank account with a commercial bank in Nigeria.
Must be well paid as an employee or own a thriving business Both the employee and business owner must verify their monthly income and must have a clean credit bureau. Your statement of account for up to six months is required, and there must be no issues of a returned cheque. Have a recent passport photo and an identity card to prove that you’re a staff of your organisation.