To help combat the rising cost of healthcare and increase workers’ access to affordable insurance coverage, Nationwide Marketing Group reports that it has launched the channel’s first and only health insurance program exclusively for independent retailers and their employees.  Managed by Lockton Affinity, one of the nation’s leading insurance brokerage firms, the health insurance program provides a cost-effective alternative to Affordable Care Act (ACA) exchange plans. In addition to these affordable medical plans, additional ancillary benefits like dental, vision, accident, lump sum critical illness with cancer coverage, ID theft protection and pet care options are also available.  “Millions of Americans don’t have access to quality health insurance through their workplaces because the programs are too expensive or difficult for employers to manage,” explains Chris Kirk, vice president of business and financial services for Nationwide Marketing Group. “This much-needed program allows us to provide affordable medical coverage to retailers from coast to coast, without creating any administrative work for our members. Instead, employees can work with our trained benefits advisors to pick their own plans, and the professionals at Lockton handle all the logistics.”  Kirk says the program is not meant to replace any full-coverage plans that many Nationwide members offer today. Rather, it is designed specifically for retailers who don’t already offer insurance coverage to their employees. Highlights of the plans include: Eligibility in all 50 states
No waiting periods
No deductibles
Competitive rates
No restrictions on age or pre-existing conditions
Individual and family plans
Telehealth services
Plus, the program offers rolling enrollment. So as long as an employee enrolls by the 20th of the month, their coverage will begin on the 1st of the next month. “Affordable health insurance is a universal need,” says Chris Tyrrell, producer for Lockton Affinity. “This program offers benefit choices that are not traditionally available to an individual or small employer group. Nationwide’s members and their employees will have access to options that fit every price point, from basic health plans to robust health benefit offerings. By harnessing the buying power of all Nationwide’s members, Lockton Affinity is able to create a unique offering that has a variety of choices and premium savings.” The health insurance plans are open only to members of Nationwide Marketing Group. To learn more, emailinfo@nationwidegroup.org. About Nationwide Marketing Group: Nationwide Marketing Group works on behalf of thousands of independent appliance, furniture, bedding, electronics, specialty electronics, custom installation and rent-to-own dealers helping them grow their businesses and thrive on their own terms. With more than 5,000 members operating some 14,000 storefronts, Nationwide Marketing Group is the largest buying, marketing and business support organization of its kind, representing billions in combined annual sales across the membership. For 50 years, the organization has remained committed to the independent channel, empowering members with the scale, sophistication and efficiencies they need to compete while delivering the unmatched business intelligence, tools and resources required to win in an ever-changing business environment. To learn more, visit nationwidegroup.org.