Nigerian Breweries have announced plans to support artisans and micro, small and medium scale enterprises through its Goldberg Isedowo and Life Progress Booster initiatives. The 2021 Life Progress Booster initiative was inaugurated recently, while Isedowo’s project is set to launch this weekend. The empowerment platforms have impacted nearly 1,000 businesses and artisans with grants of N200,000. Launched in 2015, Life Progress Booster focuses on rewarding enterprising minds with the sum of 200,000 naira to help them implement ideas that will scale their business operations. Since inception, the CSR project has supported at least 600 businesses, mostly in the south of Nigeria. The Isedowo initiative on the other hand has been focused on supporting Goldberg’s consumers in the informal sector since 2017, building relationships with informal trade associations to ensure it is able to reach more artisans and support their craft. Beyond its empowerment goal, it has also become a seal of approval and encouragement for hard work among the average south-westerner in Nigeria. Commenting on the impact of the campaigns over the years, Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Portfolio, Nigerian Breweries, Kehinde Kadiri, said it was a delight to watch the Life Progress Booster campaign grow and help many businesses in the southern part of Nigeria scale and achieve some sustainability. She added that, “these projects are important considering the economic issues and rising rate of unemployment in the country, as they are the best reminders that hard work always pays.” Life Progress Booster is expected to cover Rivers, Delta and Edo states, in addition to the five states of the south-east, while Goldberg’s Isedowo will go through Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Lagos and Ekiti states. In the last four years, Goldberg has awarded at least N3 million to 100 artisans, mostly within rural communities in the target states that it has reached, also celebrating their successes with exciting large scale experiential events. At the Progress Booster activation events, consumers can submit their business plans as entries to win N200, 000.