 Mr. Abiola Ajibowo, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Alliance and General (A&G) Insurance PLC, Nigeria’s forward-looking insurance company, has maintained that its first goal is to satisfy the Company’s obligations to policyholders. Thus, the Company’s commitment to being a collaborative financial partner to its numerous customers, and solving real challenges, reflects its prompt claims settlement capability. The Company has moved ahead to strategically reinvented its internal processes over and above what normally might be expected in the industry. In a statement given by Mr. Adediran Oluwaseyi, Deputy Managing Director, during a recent engagement with some insurance correspondents in Lagos, he confirmed that Alliance and General (A&G) Insurance was making headways in creating and protecting its customers’ wealth while delivering value to all stakeholders. He said: “the rationale behind the recent 3-day Annual Retreat held by the Company at the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON), Topo-Badagry, tagged ‘let’s make it work’, was to impart and shape up our foot soldiers for the daunting task of achieving our set three-point growth agenda.” The company maintained that claims management is both an ethical and a moral issue and should be treated as such. According to Mr. Abiola Ajibowo, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, “in fulfillment of the Company’s obligations to its satisfied customers, Executive Management acted quickly to clean house by setting machinery in motion to review and settle all outstanding claims liabilities. The first phase of the review which amounted to the tune of N25million in claims and benefits had been expediently settled within one week in June 2021. The next phase of the claims liability review is ongoing and will be settled as soon as the process is completed.” He further stated “prompt claims settlement is one of the three-point agenda of Executive Management aimed at garnering year-on-year upward trajectory in performance and re-lunch of the company and brand to the market space. We have set a new roadmap aimed at repositioning the company for future opportunities and challenges in the insurance industry in the next five years. Our focus is aimed at three main areas namely: staff capacity building, brand reactivation, and income generation”. He assured the general public that Alliance and General (A&G) Insurance PLC is determined to build trust and confidence in its business relationship, while also creating and protecting wealth for individuals, families, and corporate customers.