The *Club Seventies Epe* in Lagos State have commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu led administration for entrenching good governance through the execution of pro-people project in various communities of the State. The apolitical group made the commendation recently as the Gov Babajide Sanwo-Olu led Administration marks his 2nd year in office with commissioning of series of people’s oriented project across the state, expecially those within Epe Division. In a statement signed by the President, Club Seventies Epe , Mr Sanuth Ibrahim Adesegun said that infrastructural development is key to the growth of a developing country like ours. It would be recalled that on June 14, 2021 Governor Sanwo-Olu inugurated a 110-bed Maternal and Child Centre (MCC) in Epe, toward curbing maternal and infant mortality and also commissioned the Regional Safety Arena that houses Fire Services, LASEMA, RRS Police, Neighbours Safety Corps, LASTMA, and a Magistrate Court. Mr Sanuth said that the unveiling of the four-floor, 110 bed-Maternal Child Centre was another essential facility for safe childbirth and the reduction of maternal and infant mortality in the community He said that the full-equipped MCC in Epe was a clear demonstration of Sanwo-Olu administration’s seriousness about the war against maternal and child mortality. The President said the Club also supported and aligned with Governor Sanwo-Olu administration’s T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda, an acronym for his administration’s six strategic development agenda namely, Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education, Security and Technology, According to Sanuth, in the last two years, Sanwo-Olu led government has shown great commitment to the improvement of maternal and child health indices in the state. ”Government should remain unwaveringly committed to this goal because there is no better time than now to put an end to preventable maternal and child deaths – with technological advancement, modern equipment and well-trained health workers. “The process of bringing life into existence should no longer lead to the loss of another life,” Sanuth said. The President, however, appeal to the State government to look into developing other sectors like education, agriculture infrastructure and youths empowement opportunity in rural communities. He urged the local government authority to emulate the state government projects initiative by giving back to the society, noting such gesture would improve infrastructure development in the community and create more values to the people. He charged local government administrator/chairmen to ensure development in the community by facilitating development of the rural communities, as a means of supporting the developmental strides of Mr Governor across the state. Sanuth asserted that the problem of local government administration in the state borders on misplacement of priorities by elected chairmen stating the mistakes are bound to be corrected if the incoming chairmen will look inwards and take governance to their people, replicating what Governor Sanwo-Olu is doing in the state. He disclosed that passion for rural development should be the utmost concern and development for chairmen in rural communities. “Some of us, on our individual capacity and as a Club have rendered services as part of our corporate social responsibility, but the elected chairmen have great task of developing our communities. They must have to avoid misplacement of priorities, so as to get it right.” He emphasized The President said that the chairmen must demostrates on their part, readiness to embark on developmental projects that will impact meaningfully on their rural dwellers The President also appealed to Mr Governor to ensure all the on-going projects within Epe Division started by the previous administration were completed expecially that of Awolowo stretch of road. He stressed the importance of that road as it connect the major Fish Market that Epe is known for in and outside Nigeria. In his Conclusion, the President, therefore, enjoined the good people of Epe Community to double their support and encouragement for the administration to do more, enthusing that, “Sanwo-Olu’s administration is determined to take the state to the enviable height of world standard.