……..collaborate with Oyo State government on physical development, capacity building for workforce The Governor Oyo State, Engr Seyi Makinde has promised to allocate  landed property for the construction of The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) Oyo State Branch Secretariat and Tuition Centre where indigenes of the state desirous of attaining professional banking qualifications and its attendant skills, can study and be tutored for the CIBN’s professional banking examinations. Governor Makinde made the statement while receiving the CIBN team led by Dr. Bayo Olugbemi, President/Chairman of Council who paid him a courtesy visit in his office, at the Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan, said that his administration will collaborate with the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) on physical development and capacity building for its relevant workforce in the state. Makinde stated that his administration is also planning to equally integrate banks’ Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV), into the state’s security network to improve security within and outside the banking environments. “As an administration, we are pushing really hard on the security of lives and property and you will agree with me that banking environments are places that are vulnerable and prone to attacks The Governor commended the efforts of the institute and indeed the banking industry for its various contributions to the development of the state, especially toward ensuring an efficient and effective security system. He added that his administration will continue to support the institution’s activities. According to Governor Makinde, “It will always be my pleasure to support CIBN activities. “On the request for the members of civil service here to take advantage of training and retraining from the institute, we will look into that. I know that one thing this administration has done is to give opportunities to our people to up their game. So, this actually fits into our efforts in that direction, and we will take advantage of that. “Also, we will be willing to share our own experiences dealing with governance at both the state and the local levels. So, collaborating with the CIBN is, for me, a given, and I will always look from a situation where both sides have benefits to take out of such interaction. Earlier in his remarks, the CIBN President, Dr. Bayo Olugbemi, explained that the banking industry would continue to partner with the state government towards achieving its goal of taking Oyo State to greater heights. Dr Olugbemi said that “I am happy to be here in Ibadan. We thank you for giving us the opportunity to have this audience with you today and we commend your laudable achievement, especially in the areas of education, infrastructure, youth development, security, and other sectors in the state. Dr Olugbemi also explained the CIBN’s readiness to collaborate with the Government in organizing an Annual Seminar for Judges on Banking and Allied Matters for the Osun State Judiciary. According to him, CIBN would leverage on its over 20years experience of running a similar Programme for all the judges in the Country in collaboration with the National Judicial Institute. He further said that the Institute would be most willing to partner with the relevant ministries of the state government to enhance the capacity of their personnel in the area of banking and finance. He also said that the Oyo state should take advantage of the numerous experienced professionals in the Banking industry that can help handle various projects and initiatives of Oyo State Government while the Institute will be readily avail the Government nominations for such assignments. Dr Olugbemi also encouraged Oyo State government to absorb Banking and Finance graduates/ACIB qualification holders into the State Civil Service in view of the immense