Alliance and General (A & G) Insurance PLC, one of the pioneer insurance risk solution providers in Nigeria, held her 2021 Annual Retreat for Management and Staff from 28th – 30th May 2021 at the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON), Topo-Badagry. The retreat which was tagged ‘let’s make it work’ featured seasoned and elegant speakers in persons of Prof. Babatunde Rabiu, Prof. Ibiyinka Fuwape, Vice-Chancellor of Micheal and Cecilia Ibru University, Barr. Nguumbur L. Oritsejafor of Portmanteau Limited, and Mr olabode Sowumi, Personal Assistant to the Senate President.  According to the Deputy Managing Director, Adediran Oluwaseyi,“this year’s retreat was hinged on rejuvenating and preparing our staff for the uphill task ahead, setting goals, motivating and building sustainable team bonding and networking experiences.  ”The Company which was Incorporated in 1987 and commenced business as a Composite Insurance Company in 1989, has set the space and moved forward with growing confidence aimed at achieving strategic delivery and sustained momentum. The Managing Director of the Company, Ajibowo Abiola, emphasised further “our organisation was established to achieve set goals, but there comes a time as we move along our chosen paths when the need arises for us to stop and regress to the foundation of which the organisation was set up to identify areas of improvement, re-think and design new strategies and programmes.  Essentially, this retreat is focused on equitable and efficient time management to offer a formidable springboard for relaunching our Company’s propensity to act deliberately and on time for stakeholders value creation.  ”It was evident that interacting in a new environment heightened the team bonding spirit among the staff of the Company, they were refreshed, and ready to hit the ground running once they were back to work.  The retreat did not end without the fun visit to the famous Badagry Beach and other tourist attraction centers in the city; while sightseeing, staff of the Company en masse were heard chanting the mantra “we can make it work again and surely, we will.”