….. the international Financial Reporting Standard 17 (IFRS 17) Insurance Contract which will replace the present IFRS 4 on accounting for insurance contracts with an effective date of January 01, 2023 The Commissioner For Insurance (CFI) stated this during the inauguration ceremony of the Sub Working Groups (SWGS) of Insurance Industry Financial Reporting Working Group (IIFRWG) recently in Lagos During the inauguration ceremony of the SWGS, the CFI, Mr Sunday Thomas said this initiative is in line with the Commission’s strategic goal as IFRS 17 will facilitate transparency and accountability in financial reporting. He recall that the Insurance Industry Working Group (IIFRWG) which is an initiative of the Commission was inaugurated at this same venue on 2nd of March 2020 as an advisory and consultative team of experts for the purpose of seamless adoption of IFRS 17 in Nigeria. According to him it is against this backdrop that the Commission hereby constitutes a Sub Working Group that will help to foster the country’s adoption of the IFRS 17 in line with best practice. If the effective date of application is not shifted further by the IASB, it therefore means that Nigeria insurance industry has less than two (2) years to prepare for the adoption of IFRS 17, he added. Commissioner noted that we all know that in May 2017 the International Accounting Standard Board (IASB) issued the international Financial Reporting Standard 17 (IFRS 17) Insurance Contract which will replace the present IFRS 4 on accounting for insurance contracts with an effective date of January 01, 2023.  Thus, mr Thomas said beginning from January 01, 2023, all insurance and reinsurance contracts must be reported in accordance with IFRS 17 whose objective is to ensure that an entity provides relevant information that faithfully represents the insurance contracts. This information forms the basis for users of financial statements to assess the effect that insurance contracts have on the entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows, he stressed.  “The Commission had equally issued a “Roadmap” on Adoption of IFRS 17 Insurance Contract for Insurance Industry in Nigeria” on January 28, 2020. The activities and timelines in the Roadmap are intended to set the tone and facilitate a coordinated process and action steps. The Roadmap was issued for general adoption by all Insurance, Reinsurance, Takaful and Micro Insurance Companies in Nigeria.  “In addition to the inauguration of the IIFRWG and issuance of the Roadmap, the Commission had also organized an IFRS awareness training on IFRS 17 for CEOs, Non- Executive Directors and Accountants of insurance and Re-insurance companies in Nigeria. The two days awareness training session was equally a huge success.  NAICOM Boss said it is now in furtherance to providing technical recommendations and production of relevant guidance for the implementation of IFRS 17 that members of the IIFRWG is now grouped into SWG that we are today inaugurating.  “The Sub Working Groups are constituted to assist the IIFRWG in the achievement of it mandates by considering those more technical aspects in the implementation of IFRS 17 and that will support in the seamless transition. It is on this note that the IIFRWG had identified the following three (3) critical sub working groups – namely: Mr Thomas further noted that members of the various SWGs comprise some selected members of the IIFRWG and the co-opted members selected from the relevant organizations. Membership of each of the SWG is selected based on a member area of strength in terms of knowledge and experience to contribute meaningfully to the achievement of the assignment of the SWG. The aim is to ensure that the views from Nigerian stakeholders interested in insurance financial reporting issues are properly considered in discussions at SWG. He pointed out that it is important to reinstate that the Sub Working Group is advisory in nature. Thus, the Sub Working Group’s output will always take the form of recommendation to the IIFRWG for further consideration.  The Commission will continue to give its full support to the Sub Working Groups to facilitate their smooth working and in achieving the set goals for the adoption of the IFRS 17 in the Nigerian insurance industry. 