E-commerce company Coupang is expected to make an insurance claim of around KRW360 billion ($319 million) for losses arising from a massive fire at its logistics center in Icheon on June 17. However, insurers in Korea are not expected to see a big hit to their financial results from the incident. Four Seoul-based non-life insurers — DB Insurance, KB Insurance, Lotte Non-Life Insurance and Heungkuk Fire & Marine Insurance — participated in a consortium in the property insurance coverage which is worth KRW400 billion. Of them, DB Insurance has the largest liability of 60%, with KB and Lotte following the list with 23% and 15%, respectively, reported The Korea Times. All four insurers have a reinsurance contract with Korean Re, and the industry estimates that they will not have to suffer huge losses from the disaster. DB Insurance confirms that it would pay up to KRW7 billion for the damages caused by the fire. Reinsurance Korean Re, the nation’s largest reinsurer, declined to comment regarding its estimated insurance payment for the disaster, as it has also signed reinsurance contracts with overseas reinsurers. “There are so many variables that we have to take into account, so it is hard for us to share any estimated figures for the time being,” the official said. Hana Financial Investment said in a report last week that DB Insurance and Korean Re would not suffer huge losses due to the Coupang blaze. “Korean Re is dispersing risk through reinsurance contracts with other insurers, and the company is estimated to report a loss of KRW8bn from the incident,” said Lee Hong-jae, an analyst at the brokerage house. Asia Insurance Review is a sister publication of Business Insurance. More stories from AIR here. In another development, foreign insurers exit South Korea due to strict rules, falling profits
According to analysts, foreign financial entities, including insurers, are withdrawing from South Korea due to falling profits, rising costs and stringent financial standards, Asia Insurance Review reported citing The Korea Herald. 