Outrage yesterday greeted the killing of Mr. Christopher Dega, the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Security to Benue State governor, in Jos, Plateau State capital. A statement by the Plateau State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, Mr. Gabriel Ogaba, described the killing of Dega, a retired Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police as sad. The Benue State Governor, Dr. Samuel Ortom, also condemned the killing, which took place on Monday. Giving details on how Dega was killed, the police said: “It is on a sad note that the command received an ugly report of the death of AIG Christopher Dega (rtd). “On 31/05/2021 at about 2030hrs, AIG Christopher Dega (rtd) was shot dead by three yet-to-be identified gunmen in an isolated restaurant at Bukuru, Jos.” The statement added that the late AIG had arrived in Jos from Makurdi, the Benue State capital, on the same date at about 1930hrs. It said investigation had revealed that he was trailed and shot. The police said some suspects had been arrested, while the investigation was ongoing. Dega was twice Commissioner of Police in Borno and Edo states. He hailed from Katsina Ala local government area in Benue State. Reacting to the murder, Ortom condemned the assassination, describing it as devastating and a huge blow to his administration and the state. The governor, while speaking to journalists yesterday in Makurdi, lamented that the retired AIG was a dedicated aide, expressing shock that he was gunned down in such a gruesome manner. He said: “Retired AIG Dega served with me here and this is someone who has retired but is not tired and was very active. So, for him to have been murdered in the manner they did, a retired AIG gunned down. This is very sad.” He called on security agencies to find the killers of his aide. He also urged President Muhammadu Buhari to convene a national security dialogue to address the nationwide security challenges. Ortom also sympathised with the family, friends and former colleagues of the deceased and prayed God to grant him eternal rest. Also reacting to the killing, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) expressed shock at the murder of the late security adviser. The PDP, in a statement by its National National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, condemned the murder. It described it as barbaric as well as ominous, given the recent attempts on the life of Ortom by terrorists and bandits. The party described the slain Dega as a patriotic Nigerian and dutiful aide, who gave his all in the service of his dear fatherland and his home state. The PDP charged the police to apprehend and bring the assailants and their backers to justice.
The party also called on Buhari to end his perceived lethargic approach to security matters and take decisive steps to end terrorism, banditry and vandalism. The main opposition party commiserated with Ortom, the Dega family as well as the government and people of Benue State. On its part, the Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives, in a statement by its Leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, described Dega’s killing as wicked and devilish. It called on the police and other security forces to immediately track down and bring the killers to justice. The lawmakers who said they were deeply grieved by the incessant killings nationwide, called on the federal government to take more effective and proactive measures to combat the worsening insecurity. The lawmakers condoled with Ortom as well as the family of the deceased, praying to God to comfort them at this moment of grief.