CONOIL Producing Limited, the operator of the OML 150 Obodo Field, has been given a 21-day ultimatum to open negotiations with the Comrade Monday Agbeyi-led executive of OML 150 Communities Consultative Forum to avoid being evicted from the area. The indigenes of the seven host communities of OML 150 embarked on a peaceful protest on Friday and stormed the Conoil Obodo Field to make their demand. The placards-wielding protesters with various inscriptions at the Conoil Obodo Field vowed to disrupt work operation at the site until Conoil decided to listen to them and commence immediate engagement with the Agbeyi executive. Speaking on behalf of the protesters in a Press Statement issued by the Chairman of the Forum, Agbeyi said, “Although the host communities of OML 150 are reputed for being peace loving, it should not be misconstrued for cowardice by Conoil Producing Limited.”  He said they were ready to use all means to ensure justice in their land. He commended the palace of the Olu of Warri, who affirmed that the Agbeyi-led executive remained the only constituted body representing the seven host communities of OML 150 that Conoil should interface with. The statement  added, “Despite this, it is saddened that the management of Conoil Producing Limited still wants to undermine the authority of the Palace of the Olu of Warri and the seven host communities of OML 150 by refusing to open discussion with the legally constituted executive of the Forum led by Comrade Monday Agbeyi. “It beats our imagination that after the peace meeting organised by the Palace of the Olu of Warri on Thursday, 17th June 2021, which was duly attended by Conoil Producing Limited, and the Comrade Monday Agbeyi-led executive was duly presented as the right executive to oversee the affairs of the forum, the company still maintains its old-fashioned stand. “The impunity has grown to the extent that the management of the company no longer has any iota of regard for the landlord communities, the Olu of Warri and the Delta State Government, in spite of the various letters written by the trio to ensure dialogue for a peaceful coexistence. The company seems to be adamant and resorts to divide-and-rule strategy.”