The Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX Group) Plc continues to play its role in driving Financial Literacy as a tool for economic development. On Thursday, 25 March 2021, NGX Group commemorated the annual Global Money Week with a virtual X-Tour and digital Closing Gong Ceremony with Children’s International School. Speaking at the event, the Divisional Head, Trading Business, Nigerian Exchange Limited, Mr. Jude Chiemeka noted thus: “At NGX, we will not relent in our drive to pursue initiatives and facilitate conversations that prioritise Financial Literacy as a catalyst through which the country can achieve financial and economic growth and advancement. This is evidenced by our initiatives such as the Annual National Competition, Adopt-A-School and X-Tour Initiatives, and other Financial Literacy Programs. We are, therefore, pleased to host the bright young leaders at Children’s International School in commemoration of Global Money Week 2021 and look forward to empowering children and young people to not only learn to manage their money wisely, but also to transfer this knowledge to their families and communities.” With the theme, Take Care of Yourself, Take Care of Your Money and the slogan, Learn. Save. Earn, the Head of Department, Market Surveillance, Mr. Abimbola Babalola took the students through a presentation on the opportunities the capital market provides for gaining financial independence through investment in different asset classes. This led to an insightful questions and answers session between Mr. Babalola and the students before the they were given the privilege to sound the digital closing gong and bring the day’s trading to a close. Global Money Week (GMW) is an annual global awareness-raising campaign that ensures that that young people are financially aware and are gradually acquire the knowledge, skills, attitude and behaviors necessary to make sound financial decisions and ultimately achieve financial well-being and financial resilience. It is organised by the OECD International Network on Financial Education (OECD/INFE).