Rampaging bandits have killed two persons in Kaduna State following multiple attacks on communities, including on the convoy of the Emir of Birnin Gwari, Alhaji Zubairu Mai Gwari II, whose vehicle was riddled with bullets. In a statement yesterday in Kaduna, the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, said security agencies had reported “several notable incidences across the state in the past 48 hours.” He said one person was killed in Kitansa village, Kauru Local Government Area while the second person was killed along the Buruku-Mando Road, in Igabi LGA. The commissioner said the attack on the emir’s convoy occurred on Monday about 4:30 pm, adding that the emir was already in Kaduna when the bandits struck. According to him, only the emir’s driver, Umar Jibrin, and his police orderly, Inspector Sani Yahaya, were in the official vehicle of the traditional ruler and were on their way to Kaduna.
He added that no life was lost. The statement said: “Security agencies have reported several notable incidences across the state within the last 48 hours. “According to the reports, on Monday, 15th March 2021, at about 4:30 pm, the official vehicle of the Emir of Birnin Gwari was shot at by bandits around the Zonkoro axis of the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari road, within Chikun Local Government area. “Only the driver, Umar Jibrin, and an orderly, Inspector Sani Yahaya, were in the vehicle, on their way to Kaduna. The emir was in Kaduna at the time of the attack. “No life was lost and the Emirate Council relayed details of the incident to the Kaduna State Government.” The commissioner added that in another incident, armed robbers barricaded a bridge leading to Kitansa village, Kauru LGA and shot dead one Danladi Goriye, while another, Sunday Garba, sustained gunshot wounds. Bandits also barricaded the Buruku-Mando Road and opened fire on vehicles plying the road, during which one Abdullahi Baballe, a resident of Lema area in Mando, was killed. Aruwan, however, said Operation Safe Haven yesterday rescued two travellers, Ismail Haruna and Isa Mohammed, who were attacked by a mob in Chawai District, Kauru LGA. According to him, the two people were on their way from Bassa Local Government Area in Plateau State to Marwa village, in Bakin Kogi, Kauru LGA, Kaduna State when they were intercepted by the youths who attempted to lynch them. The commissioner said, in another incident, troops of Operation Safe Haven apprehended a suspected bandit informant, one Muhammad Sani Abubakar, at Apyimbuu village, Zangon Kataf LGA, who was handed over to the police for further investigation. The commissioner said in Rafin Rikamba village, Chikun LGA, troops of Operation Thunder Strike neutralised two bandits during a raid on a suspected hideout, adding that other bandits escaped with wounds from gunshots. He stated that police personnel also intercepted two suspects who are brothers – Abdullahi Samaila and Adamu Samaila, from Toro, Bauchi State, along the Kaduna-Saminaka road with 150 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition concealed in the door of their vehicle. Aruwan said: “The suspects confessed to supplying ammunition to three previously arrested suspects – Marcus Danladi, Danjuma Dachi and Ibrahim Haruna (arrested in late February) from Plateau State for onward supply to one Usman a.k.a Gurgu in Kaduna State. “The trio were arrested with 1,565 rounds of ammunition on February 28th. Following that, one Suleiman Tukur and his son, Shuaibu Suleiman, were arrested in Karahi as part of the same syndicate. They were in possession of 231 rounds.” The commissioner said the most recently arrested suspects attempted to escape, and in the process, Adamu was fatally wounded and was confirmed dead in the hospital while Abdullahi was injured on his right leg.