A Non-Governmental Organisation with focus on substance abuse and rehabilitation, Christ Against Drug Abuse Ministry (CADAM) has graduated not less than 36 people -31 male and 5 female – who make up its 49th set of beneficiaries at a graduation ceremony held over the weekend. The ceremony was held at the Enoch & Folu Adeboye Rehabilitation Centre which was commissioned and dedicated by former Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on October 3, 2017, at Araga, Epe, Lagos. With a focus on handling cases of persons with drug abuse disorder, CADAM has over the years graduated beneficiaries who have overcome drug abuse and reintegrated them into the society. While welcoming guests and congratulating CADAM graduates, Anthony Aletor, Chairman of CADAM and Vice Chairman, Capital Express Assurance Limited expressed his gratitude for the occasion and the success of CADAM. “We thank the Almighty God for the opportunity of even having this ceremony to send forth to the outside world, 31 Men of Honour and 5 virtuous ladies to begin a new lease of life, despite the challenges of covid-19 pandemic. “There’s no doubt that CADAM in its 30 years of existence, has contributed to the successful treatment and rehabilitation of 3000 beneficiaries, most of whom are now living productive, independent and drug-free lives in various areas of human engagements and are indeed happy to witness another send-forth,” he revealed. Commenting on the achievement of CADAM in recent years, Aletor revealed that CADAM now has a Head Office located at Agidingbi, which makes it possible to receive dignitaries from NDLEA and other accredited drug related agencies as well as provide counselling services. He added that the NGO has increased its capacity and reach with the addition of directorates, the appointment of a DG and other measures that will ensure its operation across the 36 states, the FCT and beyond Nigeria to ensure a drug free world. “This we intend to do by ensuring full commitment to our five-year strategic direction which includes the desire to have regional offices in the 6 geopolitical zones and more rehabilitation centers across the country, whilst working with some state Governments to help them manage their drug problems and initiating more social awareness programs on the nation’s drug problems through radio and TV programs with the help of many organizations. Also speaking at the occasion is wife of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God Pastor (Mrs) Folu Adeboye who is the Matron of CADAM. While also welcoming guests to what she described an “all-important and solemn occasion of the Graduation of these men of honour and virtuous ladies,” she said that the event marks a landmark occasion in the lives of the graduates and that of CADAM as a ministry.  “We are all gathered here today to witness the faithfulness of God in the lives of these 31 men of honour and 5 virtuous ladies as they graduate from here to return to the society fortified by the teachings and guidance they have received here. “I am a proud Mother today to these beautiful children of God and a witness to what God is doing in the lives of any beneficiary that steps in here, their families, CADAM itself and the society at large. We all know that substance abuse disorders have ravaged our Nation and this unfortunate situation is clear reminder that all hands must be on deck to save our youths from destruction as well as the soul of our nation. “This is one of the reasons that the General Overseer of the Mission, Pastor E.A Adeboye as a Patron, is committed to the activities of this ministry. This also has caused me to take this ministry under my wings to assist in every way possible to achieve its purpose and objectives. I thank God daily for all the members of the Board of Trustees and especially the Chairman, for their commitment to make this ministry an international organisation in the treatment and rehabilitation of people with substance use disorders,” she said. Despite the recorded successes, Mrs Adeboye explained that there is still much to be done. “From available statistics, Nigeria is close to being in an epidemic. The global prevalence average for substance use is 5.6% whilst Nigeria’s prevalence rate is 14%- almost triple of the global average. “For every 4 persons with substance abuse disorders, 1 is a female, which means that women abuse drugs too. These are frightening and startling statistics which must cause all of us to pause and support this Ministry in its onerous responsibilities of salvaging our youths from the scourge of addiction,” she explained. She added, “Today, we will be bidding these 36 persons farewell as they re-join their families and the larger society. My prayer for them as always is that our Lord will keep them safe as they walk the narrow path of faith and righteousness. May they never return to their vomit but go to perform exploits living drug-free independent and productive lives. “To their parents and family members, I say congratulations and pray that God Himself will guide you as you help them to settle back into normal lives. Please, never remind them of the past they have left behind but help them to hold on to the Cross of Jesus they now bear. God will help you all,” she prayed. 