In order to accommodate many more beneficiaries and boost consumer expenditure which should positively stimulate the economy.  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Governor, Godwin Emefiele in Keynote Address at the 30th Seminar for Finance Correspondents & Business Editors Dated: 20th March 2021 said over the years, the FICAN Seminar has continued to provide a veritable platform for the CBN to deepen the knowledge and understanding of Business Editors and Financial Correspondents as it relates to CBN’s policies, interventions and initiatives. It also provides a significant opportunity for us to receive periodic feedback from members of the fourth estate of the realm, he added.   CBN Governor was represented by CBN Deputy Governor Corporate Services Mr Edward Lamekek Adamu, in his virtual opening address said that “I consider the theme of this seminar: “Leveraging digital economy to drive growth, job creation and sustainable development in the midst of a global pandemic” very apt in view of the challenging global environment as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We currently live in an era of unprecedented change, posed by the volatile effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on every sector of life and business globally, he added.   According to the governor, CBN has equally made bold moves to alleviate the plight of households and business owners and drive economic growth during the pandemic.  He pointed out that we initially created a N150 billion Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) for affected households and small and medium enterprises through the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank. Already, he noted that N149.21 billion has been disbursed to 316,869 beneficiaries, he added.  In his words: Given the resounding success of this program and its positive impact on output growth, we have decided to double this fund to about N300 billion, in order to accommodate many more beneficiaries and boost consumer expenditure which should positively stimulate the economy. In line with the growing need to go digital, the application process is done online and requires limited paperwork from prospective applicants, he stressed.  He noted that the media has an important role to play in educating the public on how best to leverage the digital economy to drive growth, job creation and sustainable development in the midst of a global pandemic. It is therefore my expectation that at the end of the sessions, participants would have acquired an in-depth understanding of the subject matter and would better appreciate the Bank’s commitment to economic growth and development.