The National Metrology Institute (NMI) of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has taken delivery of additional weight standards to boost the ongoing calibration of various weighbridges in use in the Country. Engr. Bede Obayi (left) taking delivery of the new Weight Standards with some Staff of the NMI  A statement from the office of the Director General, SON, Mallam Farouk Salim disclosed that the investment is in line with its determination to ensure equity in business and control rapid wear and tear on Nigerian roads. According to him the increased capacity is in furtherance of implementing the Federal Government’s directive to ensure that all axle load weighbridges are properly monitored and maintained throughout the country by SON. It will be recalled that the Government through the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing and its Transportation counterpart recently directed SON to commence calibration of all axle load weighbridges in Nigeria as part of measures to protect the roads from excessive loads by cargo trucks and trailers. The NMI has since commenced the activity with the calibration of axle weighbridges at the APM Terminal, Apapa Ports in Lagos. Director of the NMI, Engr. Bede Obayi stated that the increased capacity of the NMI is in fulfillment of the promise by Mallam Farouk Salim on his maiden visit to the Institute.  Obayi disclosed that the Institute has continued to receive requests for calibration services from public and private organizations across the Country and is capable of meeting all the demands. Cross Section of new Weight Standards delivered to the NMI He assured Stakeholders of the NMI’s preparedness to ensure the accuracy of all measuring instruments and equipment in Nigeria to facilitate fair trade and promote the increased competitiveness of Nigerian made products in view of the ongoing implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement. The Director, NMI enjoined manufacturers and other suppliers of goods and services to avail themselves of the Institute’s calibration services to satisfy the requirements of their customers, stressing that businesses conducted on equity considerations have the potentials for continual improvement and longevity. According to him, NMI as Nigeria’s custodian of primary reference standards for the calibration of all measurement instruments and equipment, represents the Country at the international Bureau for Weights and Measures (BIPM) conferences and conventions in order to be in tune with international best practices.   