Sports enthusiasts on GOtv Max can look forward to a great variety of sporting content, with some thrilling action from the 2020/2021 La Liga, Serie A seasons, as well as games from the Turkish Super Lig, EFL Championship, shows on NBA and NFL. Here are some great line-up of LIVE sports to kick start your first weekend in March: It’s the Madrid Derby this Weekend: You get to see Atletico Madrid host city rivals Real Madrid at Estadio Wanda Metropolitano on Sunday, 7th March at 4:15pm on SuperSport LaLiga (GOtv Channel 32). Not only is this a clash about bragging rights in the Spanish capital, but it’s also a key moment in La Liga’s title race: a win for Atletico would further enhance the likelihood that they will claim the glory come the end of the season, but a victory for Real puts the defending champions right back in the hunt. Other La Liga matches to watch out for are; Real Sociedad vs Levante at 6:30pm on Sunday, 7th March, Real Betis vs Deportivo Alaves on Monday, 8th March at 9pm, also on SuperSport LaLiga. Top Serie A Clashes! Football fans are in for treat because this weekend sees Juventus host Lazio in Turin on Saturday, 6th March at 8:45pm on SuperSport Select 1 (GOtv Channel 33). With the Bianconeri scrabbling to keep themselves in the hunt for a 10th successive Scudetto, this is a key clash for the champions. Another clash with major ramifications at the top of the table sees Internazionale host Atalanta on Monday, 8th March at 8:45pm on SuperSport Select 1 for the ‘Black and Blue’ derby. Inter struck a major blow in the title race when they won the Milan derby a couple of weeks back, but manager Antonio Conte has warned that their work can be undone quickly if they don’t focus against tough opponents like La Dea. The action on American basketball courts continues later in the month as the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) March Madness matches is scheduled to start on Thursday, 18 March on ESPN (GOtv Channel 37). This popular NCAA single-elimination basketball tournament features no less than 67 college teams. This tournament is known as one of the stand-out and most thrilling annual events on the sporting calendar. With 2020’s tournament having been cancelled due to the pandemic, fans are chomping at the bit for this year’s instalment of March Madness, which will broadcast live on ESPN. English Football League (EFL), Scottish Premier Football League (SPFL) and more on ESPN! If you are a die-hard sports fan, the live action for the week opens on Friday, 5th March at 8:40pm with an EFL Championship clash between Huddersfield Town and Cardiff City! That’s not all, fans of National Football League (NFL) can enjoy NFL Live at 10pm on Monday, 8th March on ESPN (channel 38). To throw in something extra, you get to see Nigerian Players! Professional Nigerian footballers will keep you entertained and proud to be a Nigerian! Players such as 22-year-old Victor Osimhen, who plays as a forward for Napoli. He is one of the ‘most in demand’ African footballers. The 21-year-old Samuel Chukwueze will also grace your screens, playing with his team, Villarreal as a midfielder. Stay tuned to GOtv to witness your fellow Nigerians play as well as other African players. If you are looking to watch all these and more LIVE sports at an affordable fee, GOtv launched a ‘GOtv Dey Your Side’ offer, which sees you pay for GOtv Jolli – N2,460 and you get upgraded to GOtv Max which is worth N3,600! Follow GOtv on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook to find out more entertaining TV shows in March. Also, visit www.gotvafrica.com, or download MyGOtv app which is available to iOS and Android users to manage your account or select the Auto-Renewal option to stay connected to quality entertainment without interruptions and for other self-service options.