As the pace of technological adoption increases, we must find ways to leverage digital channels in improving access to finance and access to credit for all Nigerians.  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Governor, Godwin Emefiele in Keynote Address at the 30th Seminar for Finance Correspondents & Business Editors Dated: 20th March 2021 said over the years, the FICAN Seminar has continued to provide a veritable platform for the CBN to deepen the knowledge and understanding of Business Editors and Financial Correspondents as it relates to CBN’s policies, interventions and initiatives. It also provides a significant opportunity for us to receive periodic feedback from members of the fourth estate of the realm, he added.   CBN Governor was represented by CBN Deputy Governor Corporate Services Mr Edward Lamekek Adamu, in his virtual opening address said that “I consider the theme of this seminar: “Leveraging digital economy to drive growth, job creation and sustainable development in the midst of a global pandemic” very apt in view of the challenging global environment as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We currently live in an era of unprecedented change, posed by the volatile effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on every sector of life and business globally.  According to him “As you are aware, most economies had to undergo various levels of lockdowns. As a result, households and businesses adapted to 3 classified as confidential these measures by leveraging digital channels to conduct business activities and personal transactions. This led to a surge in demand for digital platforms that promote remote work such as Zoom and Microsoft Teams; along with e-commerce applications that enable digital payments for the purchase of goods and services online, he added.   In Nigeria, Emeifele said we were able to benefit from some of the measures put in place by the CBN in developing a robust interoperable robust payment system. The presence of these digital channels along with various mobile and web-based channels helped to support households and business continuity. According to the governor “It was also critical in mitigating the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on GDP growth in 2020. The ICT sector grew by 14.7 percent in 2020 relative to growth of 10.16 percent in 2019, he added.  Emeifele pointed out that “As the pace of technological adoption increases, we must find ways to leverage digital channels in improving access to finance and access to credit for all Nigerians.  Consequently, the digital economy will be a key factor towards our efforts at driving growth over the next few years. As we are all aware, the digital economy is made up of various components, including data analytics, robotics, Artificial Intelligence (AI), machine learning, e-commerce, e- business, e- infrastructure. It is based on the interconnectedness of people, organizations, and machines that results from the Internet, mobile technology and the Internet of things (IoT). One of the strongest advantages of technology is that it shrinks time and space and reduces the world as a global village, thereby providing connectivity at the click of a button to anyone anywhere in the world.  “To further drive growth, Nigeria needs to build a solid digital economy, by focusing on digital infrastructure (internet connectivity most importantly), digital literacy and skills, digital financial services, digital platforms and digital entrepreneurship 4 Classified as Confidential and innovation. As the biggest economy in Africa with one of the largest youth populations in the world, Nigeria is well-positioned to develop a strong digital economy. Consequently, there is need to focus on accelerating improvements across five fundamental pillars of a digital economy: digital infrastructure, digital platforms, digital financial services, digital entrepreneurship and digital skills.  He disclosed that “In our effort to drive change and development, the CBN has over the last decade and half, worked to build an effective and efficient payment system. The Payment System Vision 2020 strategy document was published in 2007 and the main objective of the strategy was to promote and entrench electronic payments, as the major channel for payment and settlement by all economic agents, away from the current dominance of cash-based transactions.  The robust regulatory framework put in place by the Bank opened up the payment system to innovation with several new players across in the following licensing categories – Payment Service Banks, Payment Terminal Service Providers (PTSP’s), Payment Solution Service Providers (PSSP’s), Mobile Money Operators (MMO’s), Payment Terminal Application Developers (PTSA’s), and Agent Banking.  A combination of these payment initiatives has immensely helped to create employment opportunities and to further our efforts at building a more financially inclusive economy. Today an SME in Ibadan is able to leverage digital channels to sell their products and services to a wider market beyond their immediate environment.” He noted that the media has an important role to play in educating the public on how best to leverage the digital economy to drive growth, job creation and sustainable development in the midst of a global pandemic. It is therefore my expectation that at the end of the sessions, participants would have acquired an in-depth understanding of the subject matter and would better appreciate the Bank’s commitment to economic growth and development