GOtv has got a great line-up of colourful and exciting Bollywood movies and new episodes of intense drama series you can watch throughout this week into the weekend. From the rich culture, outfits, romantic sceneries to music, you get to experience it all on StarLife (channel 23) available on GOtv Max! Here are Bollywood programmes to catch throughout this week on GOtv MAX: Romance will never go out of fashion. Eternal Love Season 1 narrates the love story of Rohit, a successful cardiologist and Sonakshi, a television actress. They view the world differently as Rohit believes in science and logic, while Sonakshi lives in a fantasy world. This series airs daily at 5pm. Sacred Relationships Season 1 sees two individuals question the motive behind arranged marriages and parents’ intervention in their children’s lives. They dare to make their own decisions and forge their path, but will they succeed? This series airs daily at 6pm. My Identity Season 1 takes the cake for family drama! This series centers around Avni Ayesha who was born out of wedlock but determined to lose the illegitimate identity the society and her grandmother has forced up her. This series airs daily at 7pm. Catch the first season of an Indian supernatural thriller series, The Evil Eye, which focuses on a clan of witches called The Daayans who worship the mother goddesses Kali and Durga. The series also explores two individuals, Ansh and Piya, who are unaware of their inherited powers and how their destinies are tied together. This series airs Daily at 9pm.  This romantic movie, Roy centers around a successful film-maker Kabir, who meets Ayesha and falls in love. He suffers a heartbreak when she leaves him. Meanwhile, a thief undergoes a change of heart when he experiences love. This movie airs on Friday, 12th March at 2pm. Wrap up your weekend with Kick, which sees an adrenaline junkie Salman Khan walk away from whirlwind romance and embraces a life as a thief. This movie stars Jacqueline Fernandez and Randeep Hooda! and airs on Sunday, 14th March at 2pm. You can enjoy all these shows and more at an affordable price with the ‘GOtv Dey Your Side’ offer, which sees you pay for GOtv Jolli – N2,460 and you get upgraded to GOtv Max which is worth N3,600! Follow GOtv on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook to find out more entertaining TV shows in March. Also, visit www.gotvafrica.com, or download MyGOtv app which is available to iOS and Android users to manage your account or select the Auto-Renewal option to stay connected to quality entertainment without interruptions and for other self-service options.