The Real Acts of Kindness (RAK) Development Foundation on Friday empowered over 70 women from Badagry West communities with grinding machines, freezers, generator sets, microwaves, fans and cylinders. Mr. Mobolji Ogunlende, the Pioneer, RAK Development Foundation made the support during Mrs Sesi Ogungbe’s Birthday Celebration at Suntan Beach, Badagry. Ogungbe is the Supervisor for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation (WAPA), Badagry West Local Council Development Area (LCDA). According to Ogunlende, the items were to improve the standard of living of Badagry women. Badagry Parrot News reports that the items donated by RAK to empower the women are 10 pieces of grinding machine, three microwaves, three generating sets, one freezer, one fridge and five standing fans. Others are five 6kg cylinders and five 3kg cylinders with burners and 100 bags of different souvenirs
Speaking at the ceremony, Ogunlende said he was delighted when Ogungbe told him she would use her birthday ceremony to support women in the area. “I was excited when she told me she was using her birthday celebration to support women in Badagry West, it was an opportunity to assist women of the west which has been long overdue. “Ogungbe has always called me and asked when I will support women in Badagry West communities and I think the time has come to contribute my little to the empowerment of women. Said Ogunlende “When I was told that 50 to 100 women will gather here today, I decided to ensure that at least many of them will not go back home empty-handed,” he said. Ogunlende commended women for taking charge of their homes.
He thanked God for giving him a good mother that always supports him whenever he wants to assist women in Badagry communities. ” The 10 grinding machines were donated by her to support other items I have planned to support women today. He commended the supervisor for WAPA for her support in his past endeavours in other parts of Badagry “Aunt Sesi Ogungbe is a very nice woman, she is always praying for me and she doesn’t play with my matter “As you are uplifting the life of rural women in Badagry communities, God will continue to lift your hands,” he prayed.
Speaking at the event, Mrs Esther Gbenu, the wife of the Council Chairman, Badagry West LCDA, who is the Chief Host, said women leadership roles could not be over-emphasized in any society. She urged them to be leaders in their various homes. Also speaking, Mrs Bukola Bamgbose, the wife of former member of House of Representatives, Badagry Constituency (2015-2019) urged mother’s to be faithful and nice to one another. In her remarks, Hon Sesi Ogungbe said that she never had the mind to celebrate her birthday elaborately.

According to her, I am the happiest person on Earth today. “I will always clamour for women’s freedom, today if I fail to employ or empower my people at this time when our tenure is gradually rounding up, I’m a failure. Ogungbe said “My sincere gratitude goes to RAK foundation pioneer for strongly standing by me and supporting me to empower our women,” she said. Ogungbe also expressed his deep appreciation to Hon. Bamgbose Joseph, Hon Gbenu Joseph, Chief Akinsanya Sunny Ajose OON, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and other top political leaders for their quality leadership role and contribution towards women development in the area.