Some bandits have invaded Baka 1 and Baka 2, two neighbouring villages in the Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State, killing four persons while one sustained injury. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the attack on Tuesday, did not state time of the attack. He identified those killed as Buhari Alhaji Halle, Nasiru Mai Ungwa Dari, Ali Nasiru and  Iliya Idris, adding that Yusha’u Halle was injured. “Security agencies reported an attack on Baka 1 and 2, neighbouring villages in Igabi local government area. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai noted the report with sadness, and condoled with the families of the deceased,” he added Herder hacked to death in Kaduna LG reprisal Meanwhile, a Fulani herdsman was said to have been hacked to death with a machete in a counter-attack on Sabanfan village in the Zango-Kataf Local Government Area of the sate on Tuesday. Aruwan, said the herdsman was killed while his cattle were grazing at the location. Aruwan said the latest killing followed Monday attacks and counterattacks in Wawan village in the Zango-Kataf LG where four – a man and his seven-year-old son, a toddler and one other person – were killed. The commissioner said, “According to the report, the herder, Kaminu Suleiman, was killed with a machete by unknown assailants while out grazing his herd at the location. Troops responded to information of the attack and found the corpse with machete cuts, buried in the mud by the river bank. “This killing is the latest in a sequence of attacks and counter-attacks, after the following four locals were killed yesterday (Monday) in Wawan Rafi II village of the same local government. “These violent incidents have taken place against the backdrop of three community leaders who have been missing since March 21, 2021. They are Ardo Pate Usman Kurmi (Wakilin Fulanin Atyap Chiefdom)Ardo Muhammadu Anchau, Yakubu Muhammadu. “The governor … reminded all parties of the importance of recourse to the law as the only solution to the bloodshed. He stressed that Government would nevertheless remain resolute in its efforts to restore peace and security to the general area.”