ExperientialNG, in line with her goal of providing world class professional dynamic capabilities to Marketing professionals across Africa, would be organising free Strategic training sessions for top African Executives. It is a programme, in the words of Dr Rotimi Olaniyan, founder and Publisher of ExperientialNG, “marketing or services leader would wish to miss”. The executive learning sessions would be delivered via ZOOM on May 1, a public holiday in most African countries also tagged workers day. From the quality of registration so far, the programme is poised to witness a unique assemblage of senior executives, and accomplished leaders in sales and marketing, as well as marketing and creative services agencies.  From the highlights given by the organisers, the programme would be a half day of World Class Professional Marketing discourse and practical conversations. The discussants are expected to showcase valuable learning content from academy’s forthcoming Management & Leadership Skills Development Series, which is an initiative intended to help deepen workplace skills for firms looking to drive strategic advantages and growth through innovation, strategic thinking, top-notch research and practical commercial leadership. According to Dr Olaniyan, this session is still the academy’s premium master class though free, so it is only open to a select group of attendees that meet the academy’s criteria for relevance, potential impact and contribution. The three principal speakers for the May 1 programme are Stuart Hamilton, Austin Ufomba and Rotimi Olaniyan.  Stuart Hamilton is an International business and trade development specialist with over 40 years’ experience across multiple sectors, with specific involvement in construction, oil & gas and IT. He has strong background in international trade and in tendering for large contracts. READ ASLO THIS: ExperientialNG Holds Virtual Free Strategic Training Programme for Top Executives in Africa He currently oversees Business Development and trade missions for the Scottish Chambers of Commerce which is a coalition of over 30 chambers of commerce with membership made up of 12,000 companies including some of Europe’s most successful companies. In addition to this, he is a commercial leadership trainer and consultant, working with small and medium sized firms focussed on achieving breakthrough transformation.  Stuart shall be speaking on the realities of practical commercial leadership, with lessons that can be learnt from European growth firms.  Austin Ufomba currently serves as CEO of the Tytron Group with interests in real estate, mining and manufacturing. He has over 24 years professional and diverse working experience in Sales, Marketing, Strategy, General Management, Public Private Partnership, Business Advisory, Project Management spread across diverse career experience including Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG), Banking and Public Sector. He has served as Marketing Director at Coca-Cola Nigeria as well as Guinness Nigeria Plc, (A Diageo Company) two of Nigeria’s most prestigious consumer marketing companies. Austin shall be speaking on the imperatives of strategic thinking for today’s marketing leaders. Dr Rotimi Olaniyan is founder and Publisher of ExperientialNG, which is set up to serve as a capacity development and resource platform for practitioners and firms playing in the marketing and allied services space. He has over 32 years of commercial experience across four countries working for firms such as Colgate-Palmolive.  Between 2000 and 2017 he served as agency head and Managing Director of three marketing services firms including Proximity which he founded. He also sat on the board of Paga, a mobile money company. His work currently has him straddling both the UK and Nigeria. He currently serves as a senior member of the Marketing Faculty at Nottingham Business School where he leads the full time MBA course and conducts research in the field of Entrepreneurial and Services marketing. He is also Principal at Apex Advisors, UK an independent consultancy with commissions in the UK and Nigeria.  Rotimi shall be speaking on how to develop learning organisations and prepare future commercial leaders as reflective practitioners.  Dr Olaniyan also stressed that the May 1st webinar will hold from 9.00 am to 12 noon. Joining instructions to the ZOOM platform would be sent to registered participants 48 hours to the sessions. Although it is a free master class, attendance is still subject to terms and conditions, so prospective participants are please requested to click the link below for registration. INVITATIONS & ENQUIRIES        