Sunday 25th of April was a memorable one for young muslim scholars in Badagry as the Pioneer of Real Acts of Kindness – RAK Development Foundation, Alh. Mobolaji Ogunlende, Alatileyin Adini of Badagry Division Organized the first of it’s kind Quranic Recitation Competition with lots of unimaginable prizes.
In the words of the Pioneer while delivering his address, Ogunlende mentioned that the essence of the competition is to encourage and promote peace and harmony among brethren and the Badagry Community especially during this holy period of the ramadan. The drive behind the competition is to get our youths involved in Qur’an reading at a tender age and to be of good conduct in the society. Ogunlende added Alh. Ogunlende said “…for transparency an independent committee was set up comprising of Brother Ashade Abdulsalam, Ustaz Yusuf Abdulhameed, Mallam AbdulMalik Asade, Alhaja Gidado Kudirat and Hajia Hajarah Kamoru “At the beginning of the competition, we sent out application forms for over 100 but only 58 youths responded. Out of the 58 applicants, 18 performed exceptionally and today six of them emerged winners under two categories”. Ogunlende said For the Junior Category, A 12- year-old girl, Khadijat Sharafadeen emerged winner with a cash prize of N100,000 and other consolation prizes, while Bushroh Sulaiman, 13 year old, and Abdulkareem Eesa, 14 years, got N50,000 and N30,000 for coming second (2nd)  and third. (3rd) position respectively. Winners of the senior category are Sulaiman Abdulakem, who emerged overall winner in the senior category of the competition, he went home with a prize of N100,000 cash and consolation prizes.  Adegbola Afeez emerged second (2nd) position while Abdul Ganiu Anat came third (3rd) with each going home with 50,000 and 30,000 respectively.  The Chief Guest Speaker for the day, Dr Qozeem Ajape, The Head of Department, Arabic Language, Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Ijanikin, Lagos, urged Muslim parents to teach their wards the importance of Qur’an reading. Dr Ajape lamented that nowadays, youths were no longer interested in studying Islamic Studies and Arabic language in higher institutions. He appealed to parents to encourage their children to study the course in the schools. The HOD said that studying the teachings of Islamic Religious Knowledge and Arabic Language would make the world to live in peace and harmony. In his remarks, Fadilat Sheik Uwais Ishola Akewushola, the Chief Imam of Badagry Division, commended Ogunlende for organising the competition. The Chief Imam said that the competition would further encourage youths in studying and reading the Holy Qur’an. He urged eminent Muslims to emulate the RAK Foundation pioneer by spending their wealth in the way of Allah. While participants went home with consolation prizes such as Quran, praying mat, testament amongst others, guests were given ramadan packs as take-home. Some of the dignitaries present includes Hon. Rilwan Sejoro Layode, Chief Imam of Aradagun, Chief Imam of Kweme, Chief Imam of Ikoga, Friends Of RAK