Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde, yesterday subdued former governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayo Fayose, as the governor’s candidate for the South-west zonal chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Taofeek Arapaja, defeated the former governor’s Chief Eddy Olafeso in the contest held in Osogbo, capital of Osun State. Arapaja, a former deputy governor of Oyo State, scored 343 votes while Olafeso, a former national vice-chairman of the party, got 330 votes. Total votes cast were 675 out of which 10 were voided. In his acceptance speech, Arapaja thanked Makinde and Fayose, pledging to ensure the unity of the zone. “It’s our party. We will work together and move the party forward. We want to reposition the party. I will work with my brother, Olafeso to achieve our aims,” he said. In his speech, Olafeso also conceded defeat and promised to work with Arapaja, saying: “The storm is over, there is a new beginning for our party. We have to thank God Almighty that despite odds, there is a new beginning for our party. The time is now. I thank everybody who supported me.” However, immediately after voting and before the declaration of the results, there was tension at the WOCDIF Centre, Osogbo, Osun State, venue of the congress as some thugs stormed the area and started shooting sporadically. Delegates who had cast their ballots and were waiting outside the hall scampered for safety on hearing the gunshots. However, security operatives quickly engaged the heavily armed hoodlums outside the premises of the congress. Led by the State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Olawale Olokode, security operatives chased the hoodlums when they attempted breaking into the congress premises. Some security agents repelled the attack by firing gunshots and tear gas. This development caused commotion and panic in and around the venue as at 6:45 pm on Monday. A notorious thug from Ibadan, Oyo State was alleged to have led some thugs to the venue and started threatening to kill Fayose. The leader of the hoodlums was also said to have rained curses on Fayose, threatening to attack him should they sight him. “Fayose, you are doomed. We brought your casket here,” he said. It was gathered that shootings rent the air immediately Fayose left the venue of the congress. Fayose had earlier acknowledged Makinde as the leader of the party in the South-west. Meanwhile, the Osun State Police Command said it has arrested 10 armed hoodlums, who attempted to cause trouble at the South-West zonal congress of the PDP yesterday. The leader of the hoodlums apprehended was identified as Mr. Tiri Olowoposi, while his second in command was said to be known as ’50 litres.’ THISDAY gathered that they were arrested alongside eight others with charms and amulets as well as pump-action rifles at the venue of the congress. Spokesperson of the state police command, Mrs. Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the incident, saying they were already at the state CID for further investigation. She disclosed that as soon as the investigation is concluded they would face appropriate sanctions.