ScholarX Technologies Ltd., an EdTech start-up founded in 2016 and headquartered in Lagos, Nigeria has announced a strategic partnership with leading telecommunications services provider, Airtel Nigeria, to launch LearnAM, a new mobile learning platform that provides skills training content to improve learning outcomes. In a statement sent to AmehNews disclosed that ScholarX will also receive major support from the GSMA Innovation Fund for Mobile Internet Adoption and Digital Inclusion while leveraging on the expansive retail and digital footprints of Airtel Nigeria to deliver its skill acquisitioncontent.  According to ScholarX, the grant received from the GSMA Innovation Fund for Internet Adoption and Digital Inclusion will help fund key components in the initial phase of the project including Platform Development, Content Development&Sourcing, and Early User Adoption.  Commenting on the LearnAm initiative, Bola Lawal, Co-founder and CEO, ScholarX, said: “The ScholarX team expresses profound appreciation to Airtel Nigeria and the GSMA Innovation Fund, fundedby the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO). Through the GSMA fund, we are now able to embark on our quest to connect millions of unconnected people in Africa to the Internet and help them get trained in valuable skills for the new Digital Economy.”  “LearnAM provides audio and visual content to improve digital and vocational skills of Africans so they can access decent work. It employs a 360 approach as it provides learning opportunities, assessment to measure competency, and a marketplace that connects users to jobs, customers and apprenticeships.”  “We are committed to building a more skilled workforce focusing on young people, and not-so-young adult population who are looking to upskill or simply improve their standard of living,” he said.  Commenting on the partnership, the Chief Commercial Officer of Airtel Nigeria, Dinesh Balsingh, said Airtel is pleased to partner with ScholarX, the GSMA Innovation Fund Grantee, in creating platforms and opportunities that will empower and equip young Nigerians with the skills they require to become more successful in their personal and professional endeavours. “At Airtel, we are passionate about improving the quality of education and also helping Nigerians to gain the required skills they need to become self-sufficient and also to realize their dreams. We will continue to explore innovative partnerships that will transform lives and help more people to become successful.”  The initial version of LearnAM app has been developed on KaiOS and it will be available on affordable “smart-feature phones” and with content in local dialects such as Pidgin English, Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa.  A key feature on LearnAM is a Device Financing Program that enables individuals and members of Cooperative societies to procure a device preloaded with the LearnAM app bundled with services from strategic partners on installment after an initial deposit. Details of this program are currently being finalized with the Financing and Agent Network Partners.  While the prototype of the LearnAM KaiOS app is now available on the KaiOS app store, official launch of the platform will be in June 2021.