Nigeria LNG Ship Management Limited (NMSL), a subsidiary of Nigeria LNG Limited operates over 12 state of the art LNG vessels which are all registered in Bermuda.  But the company has said that it has a 10 year plan to improve its current 83 per cent Nigerian maritime manpower to 100 per cent by 2022.  Managing Director, AbdulKadir Ahmed said during a media parley in Lagos that having achieved bringing in international expertise into the nation’s maritime industry in the first decade of the existence of the company; it now targets 100 per cent Nigerian manpower for the company.  He disclosed that the company, which is Nigeria’s highest employer of seafarers with additional strength of over 60 shore based staff, started as an NLNG in-house ship management company in 2010 and has evolved into provision of manning service, terminal management, fleet management, maritime consultancy services and enhanced capacity building with the creation of a Maritime Center of Excellence (MCOE) based in Bonny Island, Rivers State.  With its managed Bonny Gas Transport (BGT) vessels plying all maritime routes under Bermuda Flag for global acceptability, Ahmed said its parent company produces an average of 400 cargoes annually.  On the technical management of vessels, Ahmed said they are 12 in number where 11 are Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and one is Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG). He said NMSL has attracted and will continue to source for competent Nigerian professionals with enviable certifications to sustain and improve on its world class standard operation in the maritime industry.  In the beginning, the purpose and intent when NSML was set up was Nigerianisation. It was set up as a manning company, recognising that we are a Nigerian company playing a role in providing opportunities for Nigerians.  The initial vessels were managed and manned by foreigners, even as the idea was setting up an entity that would train people, so that we can slowly take over. If my numbers serve me correctly, we had 16 officers when we started to the extent that we were almost 300 with half of them Nigerians.  So the Nigerianisation objective started from the beginning and we can see the trajectory of growth; where today we are talking about having a 100 per cent by 2022. We are currently at 53 per cent of Nigerian officers.   Hundred per cent of the ratings onboard our vessels are Nigerians and more than 60 per cent of officers onboard these vessels are also Nigerians.  Why Bermuda Flag  The BGT vessels are all flagged in Bermuda, and there is a reason for that. Firstly, it is the financing of those vessels. They were internationally financed, and usually, financiers will like vessels flagged at recognised Flag State, and that is where Bermuda is.  The second element is a work in progress, as we are working with NIMASA with regards to that. It is really about building and developing the capacity of the regulatory agency in Nigeria to ensure that it becomes recognised and accepted.  Most importantly for a shipping company, what you want is for your vessel to be accepted everywhere it goes. So the flagging of vessels in Nigeria is a desire and a national objective, and we at NSML are happy to key into that.   It requires a lot of work and all hands on deck to ensure that we work together to build the agency to such a stage where the Nigerian flag will be accepted internationally and then, that is when you will have vessels being flagged in Nigeria and accepted, because it is not just about flagging.  You want to flag your vessels, but you also want it to be accepted wherever it goes. If you flag your vessel in Nigeria and it is not accepted anywhere else, then what have you done? So for us it is really about international acceptance.  We are working together with all the stakeholders to ensure that we actually achieve that goal. It is a process that has started and we believe that with the current management of NIMASA, it will be achieved. 