The National President, Association Of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Barrister Iju Tony Nwabunike, enjoin importers and agents to always pay their taxes either in the form of import duty or otherwise. It is in following in the footsteps of Jesus, he added.  According to him this year’s occasion of Easter Celebration, it is my sincere hope that we jointly reminisce on the import and significant of the celebration, relate it with our industry and our larger society.  “The selflessness of Jesus Christ, showing love and commitment to all by making the supreme sacrifice  without expecting reward in return while also seeking forgiveness for his persecutors , even at the point of death are indeed instructive.  “The betrayal by Judas Iscariot for wealth purpose and the inglorious way he (Judas) ended also symbolizes that treachery or any form of betrayal may only look beneficial in the interim but the end is sadness and regret.  Barrister Nwabunike noted that the masterstroke of the celebration is the biblical report of Jesus’ resurrection to life after three days in death. This is the demonstration of hope for mankind.  “For those of us in the maritime industry, this should be a time to reflect on the very strong virtues Easter celebrations come with. Let’s increase the love for ourselves and great country Nigeria  “Forgiveness should be freely extended amongst ourselves without being judgmental. For those of us who observed the forty days fasting that precede Easter, it’s time to resolve not to go back to anything ungodly.  ANLCA President Actions that exemplifies compliance to rules like honest declarations, payment of right duty demonstrated by Jesus in tax remittance when he talked about giving to Caeser what belongs to Caeser shouldn’t depart from us.  He said we may all not be of same faith but the Easter message appeals to all mankind irrespective of religion, race and other differences which add to the plurality and beauty of the entire human existence.   “Sincere declarations and being law abiding will not only give the declaring and agents peace of mind; it is a way of contributing to national economic growth for common good.  “Importers and international traders should avoid bringing things that hurts the health of consumers or inflame society such as hard drugs, arms, ammunition and unwholesome or expired consumables.  If we are sincere, IJu said laudable initiatives like the electronic call up system will be implemented with ease without the observed hiccups in it’s implementation  “Nigeria’s Unemployment Rate which Increased to 33.3% in last quarter 2020 from 27.1% in second quarter of last year according to National Bureau of Statistics, is not irreversible. More productive employment can be generated under an atmosphere of increased compliance  He pointed out saying the number of persons in the economically active or working age population (15 – 64 years of age) during the reference period of Q4, 2020 was 122,049,400 out of an estimated population of over 200 million persons.  The ANLCA President is confidence that the maritime industry still holds the ace for supporting other economic activities and as participants in this sensitive sector, let us rises to be counted among those who improved our economy in our time  “Many are active but truly not productively engaged due to possible factors like greed causing fewer persons to hold grip on common wealth while active workers are mostly underpaid.  “Like I reiterated in my New Year message, I have forgiven those who hurt me in the course of my being of service to professional colleagues. For me it is the best way to celebrate this season of love, sacrifice and soul searching reflections. Barrister Nwabunike stressed that the resurrection power God manifested in Jesus is truly a symbol of hope that things can get better than they were yesterday and opportunities in our future are limitless.  “Let’s make sacrifices for common good, be forgiving, avoid greed, run away from act of betrayal and shun lust for earthly wealth at the detriment of common good.  “Jesus has given us examples to emulate this season and always. May the God’s love and His blessings reign in our lives, families, careers and association’s now and always.    