…….Returns Adeduntan As MD The Central Bank of Nigeria with it mighty power has sacked the board of directors of First Bank of Nigeria and its holding company over governance issues. Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele. The CBN in quick reaction reinstated the ousted MD/CEO of First Bank Ltd even as the controversy surrounding his removal rages.  The Central Bank of Nigeria with it power reinstated ousted Dr Sola Adeduntan as MD/CEO of First Bank Ltd as against the board of directors of the bank wishes. Board of Directors in case is not one person.   Multiple sources with knowledge of the matter informed that the Godwin Emefiele led central bank is pressuring the bank behind the scenes of reinstatement of Adeduntan against the wishes of the Board of Directors of the bank. Another reliable source informed equally noted that the apex bank will issue a letter to First Bank Ltd reinstating Adeduntan soon if the bank does not reconsider his removal.    The report earlier stated that the Central Bank of Nigeria had issued the Board of First Bank Ltd a query for the removal of its CEO citing failure of the bank to obtain its approval.   According to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the apex attention was drawn to media reports that the Board of Directors has approved the removal of the current Managing Director of the bank, Dr Sola Adeduntan, and appointed a successor to replace him.  Therefore, CBN notes with concern that the action was taken without due consultation with the regulatory authorities, especially given the systemic importance of First Bank Ltd   The CBN also claimed that the tenure of Mr Adedutan was yet to expire and that he have till December 31, 2021 (bank MD’s have a maximum 10 years) and that they were also not aware of any misconduct of the former MD and as such there was no justification for his removal.  READ ALSO THIS:  CBN Sack First Bank Board of Directors & Its Holding Company, reinstated Sola Adeduntan as MD/CEO  However, sources in First Bank informed disclosed that the bank has a policy of replacing its MD/CEO’s every 6 years and maintained it did not break any CBN rules.   As you may recall the bank replaced Dr Sola Adeduntan with Gbenga Shobo as the new MD/CEO in a press release. Shobo will be 58 years in June 2021 and was before now the former Deputy Managing Director of the Bank.   It is unclear how this matter will be settled by CBN however several analysts’ opinions suggested the current impasse is not unconnected to an earlier letter sent to the bank by the CBN regarding the loan of Director and Shareholder of the bank Oba Otudeko.   As the banking sector regulator, the CBN approves appointments of Bank MD/CEOs but it is unprecedented for the CBN to interfere with matters of a bank like First Bank without call for consultations. Two wrongs cannot make a right they said; earlier CBN said first bank board of directors did not consulted regulators.   However, the CBN has in the past removed MD/CEOs of banks and has gone as far as firing the entire Board of the banks. But such cases were often preceded by a crisis in the bank and followed by the nationalization of the bank. But thank God in this case First Bank is neither in a crisis nor being nationalized.   Many sources, what to see what CBN will do:  About Gbenga Shobo who will be 58 years in June this year and as CBN rejected new MD/CEO. Will CBN and the returned MD/CEO allowed Gbenga Shobo, the aborted MD/CEO to return to his former Deputy Managing Director of the Bank? What will be the working relationship between Dr Sola Adeduntan and Gbenga Shobo going forward till December 31, 2021 when Adeduntan will be retiring? With this CBN action on the Board of the Directors, the returned CEO will be operating solo without board going forward in first bank of Nigeria?