The Management and Board of First Bank of Nigeria Limited ended their meeting today, 28th of April, 2021 with approved the appointment of Mr. Gbenga Shobo, as the Managing Director/CEO designate of the bank. According to the statement Mr. Gbenga Shobo was Deputy Managing Director  within the bank and also the board appointment is subject to all regulatory approvals. As tradition of banking industry Gbenga is billed to succeeds Adeduntan who will be leaving the bank accordance with the bank’s term limit for its Chief Executives, after successful leading the bank since January 2016. These decisions will take effect from today, 28th April 2021. Mrs Ibukun Awosika, Chairman, FirstBank of Nigeria limited in her statement explained: “We are proud to announce Gbenga Shobo as our new MD/CEO. His appointment as Deputy proven the resilience of our succession planning mechanisms and the value we place on our long-stand corporate governance practices, which underpin the institution’s enduring sustainability and 127-year legacy. READ ALSO THIS: At FirstBank: “Adeduntan Out Shobo In” As CEO According to her, Gbenga has had a successful career in the bank and elsewhere, culminating in his appointment as Deputy Managing Director (DMD), in 2016 prior to his appointment as DMD, he was the Executive Director overseeing the Retail Banking/Public Sector businesses in the Lagos & West Directorate. “As part of his responsibility for Retail Banking, he has been instrumental in developing and growing the bank’s Agency banking business, which today, is the market leader in Agency Banking, leveraging partnerships and best-in-class technology and bringing banking services to millions of unbanked and underbanked customers in Nigeria and across various countries where we operate through our Africa subsidiaries.  “The Board is confident that Gbenga has the experience and understanding of the bank and the know-how to lead the Bank through this next phase of growth, which is focused on positioning FirstBank as the preeminent bank in our chosen markets, delivering value to our stakeholders. Other appointments are: Abdullahi Ibrahim as Deputy Managing Director, while Mr. Inu Ebong, Mr. Segun Alebiosu, Mr. Seyi Oyefeso and Mrs Bashirat Odunewu are appointed as Executive Directors respectively. ‘I would like to thank Sola Adeduntan for his dedication and effort during his tenure at the Bank,. The board and I are grateful for his leadership of the bank over the last 5 and half years and believe that the strong foundations created during his term will provide and excellent basis for our continued success. We wish him well in his future endeavors outside the FirstBank Group.”