  In support of the Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre (MRCC) & Specialist Hospital, the country’s first fully-equipped private oncology centre, GE Healthcare has completed the delivery and installation of advanced radiology and radio pharmacy equipment in Nigeria which will accelerate diagnostic care for cancer. L-R: Speaker, House of Representatives, Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila; Co-Founder and Chairman, Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre & Specialist Hospital, Bolaji Odunsi; Co-Founder and CEO, Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre & Specialist Hospital, Modupe Elebute; Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo Olu and General Manager, GE Healthcare Sub-Saharan, Africa, Eyong Ebai at the official unveiling of Marcelle Ruth Cancer Center & Specialist Hospital in Lagos today.  Founded by renowned physician Dr. Modupe Elebute-Odunsi and her financier husband, Bolaji Odunsi, MRCC combines the highest standard of care with the latest treatments and technology in comfortable surroundings designed to promote healing.  The clinically trained members of the founding team all qualified from medical colleges in Nigeria and completed postgraduate training specialized in oncology and haematology overseas.  The exceptional team of highly skilled personnel include consultant medical and radiation oncologists, surgeons, family physicians, radiation therapists, nurses, pharmacists, imaging technicians, laboratory scientists, nutritionists, counsellors, and healthcare administrations, working together to treat and care for patients. READ ALSO THIS: Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre brings world-class cancer treatment to Lagos Nigeria & Sub-Saharan Africa Supporting the planning, development, building and equipping of the oncology diagnostic and treatment facility at MRCC, GE Healthcare is providing the comprehensive suite of solutions such as the award-winning Senographe Pristina 3D, the first patient-assisted compression device in mammography; the advanced LOGIQ F8 ultrasound, the comprehensive radiation therapy solution Discovery RT; and the BRIVO XR575 X-Ray and OEC 785-C Arm, two easy-to-use systems that deliver superior image quality.  All of MRCC’s medical professionals have completed advanced training on the machines.  Commenting on the Facility, Dr. Modupe-Odunsi said: “We built the Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre & Specialist Hospital to help address the gap in the treatment and diagnosis of cancer in Nigeria.  Patients who previously would have had to travel abroad to receive world-class treatment are now able to get the critical care they need here at home.  Early detection is vital to the diagnosis and treatment of this disease.”  The Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre & Specialist hospital has finalized partnerships with the leading healthcare insurance providers in Nigeria including BUPA, Allianz, AXA Mansard, AETNA, CIGNA and UnitedHealth Group.  Bolaji Odunsi, Co-Founder, commented: “We are delighted to see our vision of the MRCC finally come to life.  Our mission was simple:  bring together an exceptional team of Nigerian medical professionals with international training and experience to deliver the highest quality care to patients here in Nigeria.  This expertise supported by new technology now makes world-class treatment here in Nigeria possible and affordable.”  Eyong Ebai, General Manager of GE Healthcare in Sub-Saharan Africa, said: “We are proud to continue supporting the development of Nigeria’s healthcare infrastructure.  Our partnership with the Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre & Specialist Hospital is a true landmark as it underlines the role that the private sector can play in delivering world-class healthcare delivery in the country. These new solutions are designed to expand capacity and improve quality for diagnosis and treatment at MRCC and help meet the needs of community within the country and region.”  According to a study by the World Health Organization it is possible to prevent a third of cancer cases and treat many other cases with early diagnosis and treatment.  The latest statistics reveal that cancer accounts for 18.2% of premature deaths attributable to non-communicable diseases (NCDs), and in 2018, of the 115,950 cancer cases reported, 70,327 patients did not survive. GE Healthcare is a long-term partner in building Nigeria’s healthcare infrastructure, and continues to provide external expertise in hospital design, hospital planning and training. More than 5,800 GE Healthcare technologies are deployed in hospitals and clinics across the country. 