The Manufacturers Confidence Index (MCCI), an index which Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) uses to gauge the changes in manufacturing activities quarterly as a result of changes in the macroeconomic ambience and Government policies disclosed that 74% of the 400 of Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of MAN member-companies across the six geo-political zones and Sectoral Groups of the Association through the operations networks of the Association saying macroeconomic environment has decreased effect on manufacturing volume in the quarter under review. Therefore, MAN said to prop-up production in the sector, FX-funding, high cost of raw-materials and machines, and electricity supply challenges would need to be intentionally resolved.  According to the statement the manufacturing volume of Production and Capacity Utilization are linearly related and as such, the two indictors are affected by the same challenges.  Nevertheless some members noted that macroeconomic environment has increasing effect on manufacturing volume of production in the quarter.  In the same vein, 72% of CEO Member-Companies who respondents said that macroeconomic environment has decreased effect on sales volume in the manufacturing sector in the quarter.  “The macroeconomic environment in the quarter was characterized with high commodity prices which eroded household and firms purchasing power and affected sales in the sector significantly. Association reiterated that the manufacturing volume of Production and Capacity Utilization are linearly related and as such, the two indictors above are affected by the same challenges.  In addition, the report further noted that the effect of COVID-19 and End-SARS still lingers, particularly as it affects employment and prompt payment of salaries. While it is important for proper monetary and fiscal management, Government should sustain household with monetary stimulus packages to support consumption, particularly of locally manufactured products, it was stressed.  In the nutshell, MAN said the overall poor performances of the indexes, is an indication that demand for better management of the macroeconomy; strategic support for the manufacturing sector to maintain production despite the intensity of the second wave of COVID-19; intentional initiatives to better control the spread COVID-19; and the building of institutional framework that will checkmate all forms of restiveness that can dislocate the economy. 