The management and the board of Union Bank has announced that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has confirmed the appointment of Mrs. Beatrice Hamza Basseyas the substantive Chair of the Board of Directors and the Bank.Mrs. Hamza Bassey joined the Board of UnionBank in 2015 as a Non-Executive Director and was appointed Acting Board Chair in December 2019, after the demise of Mr. Cyril Odu, the immediate past Chairman. Commenting on her appointment, Mrs. Hamza Bassey said- “I am delighted to lead the Board as wedrive Union Bank’s growth strategy andentrench its position as a leading financial institution in Nigeria.As we move ahead, our focus remainstodeliver greater value to our customers, shareholders, and all stakeholders.”  A reputable lawyer with extensive experience in corporate governance and financial institutions, Mrs. Hamza Bassey is an authority in compliance and represents clients globally in compliance and anti-corruption matters.  Currently, she is the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer at Atlas Mara Limited, a publicly listed financial services company that operates banks in various parts of Africa. A lawyer of great repute with extensive experience in corporate governance and financial institutions, she is an authority in compliance and represents clients globally in compliance and anti-corruption matters. READ ALSO THIS: Mrs Beatrice Hamza Bassey To Chair Union Bank Board In addition to overseeing compliance, corporate governance and legal affairs across all its subsidiaries, Mrs. Hamza Bassey has led Atlas Mara’s acquisition and integration of the nine banks it has acquired to date as well as several strategic initiatives. Through her current service on the boards and board committees of publiccompanies, Mrs. Hamza Bassey has garnered in-depth knowledge of corporate governancebest practices andtrends.  Prior to the afore-mentioned, Mrs. Hamza Bassey was a Senior Partner in the New York offices of Hughes Hubbard &Reed LLP, a premier Wall Street law firm where she was a member the Executive Committee. During her almost two decades at Hughes Hubbard, Mrs. Hamza Bassey represented a roster of U.S. and international financial institutions and other corporations in a wide range of industries on issues along the full spectrum of compliance.   She holds an LL. B in Law from University of Maiduguri, Nigeria, a BL in Law from the Nigerian Law School and an LL.M from Harvard Law School. She was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1995 and the New York Bar in 1999. She is a Fellow of the prestigious David Rockefeller Fellows Program of the Partnership for New York City. 