One of major suspected suppliers of illicit drugs in Abia State, Chibuike Apolos, was yesterday arrested during a raid by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) at his hideout at Mbausi in Isialangwa North Local Government Area of the state. Apolos, who was a notorious drug dealer in the state, has been on the wanted list of the anti-drug agency. He was placed on the wanted list since February this year following the arrest of one Chima Ukeleonu, the suspect behind the video that went viral in January 2021, showing a young man hawking illicit drugs on the street. The 38-year-old Apolos was arrest in an early morning raid at his hideout yesterday. The Commander, Abia State NDLEA, Bamidele Akingbade, said: “The state command of the agency has been on his trail since February this year. Fortunately, we got a tip-off that he just received some quantities of cannabis from Edo State. “Notwithstanding the tense security situation in the South-east region, especially Abia State, the command still embarked on the operation, which culminated in the arrest of Apolos with 10 bags of cannabis weighing 100 kilogrammes; 1.6 grams of cocaine; one gram of heroin and five grams of methamphetamine.” Akingbade added: “The suspect is one of the major suppliers of illicit drugs in Abia State, especially in the Isialangwa community. The state governor has been notified, and his building has been marked for demolition.” In a similar development, the Taraba State Command of the agency has arrested on Lawan Gambo Umar, 61, for allegedly trafficking 58.5 kilogrammes of cannabis sativa. According to the state Commander of NDLEA, Suleiman Ajadi, Umar was taking the skunk (drug) concealed in sacks of beans chaff used to feed animals to Fune in Yobe State when he was intercepted. Reacting to the latest arrests, Chairman/Chief Executive of the NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa (rtd), commended the Abia and Taraba State Commands of the agency for the seizures and arrests, urging them to sustain the current tempo of offensive action in order to rid the country of illicit substances.