Rite Foods Limited, makers of Bigi assorted soft drinks and sausages, has restated its commitment to creative arts, ideapreneurship and the Nigerianness of positive energy portrayed through music, which believe would put Nigeria on the global map. Microphones depicting the variants of Bigi soft drinks, used at the maiden edition of Bigi Media Idol, organised by the Bigi Brand of Rite Foods Limited, on Tuesday, April 13, 2021, at Radisson Hotel (Old Protea Hotel), Isaac John Street, GRA, Ikeja, Lagos.  Seleem Adegunwa, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Rite Foods Limited, made the statement at the maiden edition of Bigi Media Idol, held in Lagos recently.  “The purpose of having you is to first express our commitment to talent discovery in music through the Nigerian Idol which we now sponsor and secondly, espouse our interest in creative art and ideapreneurship,” he stated. Mr. Adegunwa further explained that music brings the best out of our culture and Nigeria is littered with abundance of talents-in music, movie, comedy, spoken words, and dance. “We are putting our weight behind the Nigerian Idol because it will bring the best out of the many talents we have in the country,” he said. For the best to be discovered, groomed and given the necessary push there must be a propelling platform which the boss said, the company believes the Nigerian Idol provides.” “We are putting our weight behind the Nigerian Idol because it will bring the best out of the many talents we have in this country. Bigi has come to take over the mic,” he revealed. It was a night of fun and laughter as different variants of Bigi drinks represented mics for top industry journalists and media practitioners who took over each variant mic to entertain guests and stakeholders with their sonorous voices in a keen music contest. Rotimi Ige, a Nigerian Tribune reporter emerged winner of the grand prize of two hundred and fifty thousand naira. The sum of one hundred and fifty thousand naira was awarded to the first runner up, Osigwe Blessing, a reporter from High Society Magazine while Funsho Arogundade, a reporter from PM Express went home with one hundred thousand naira. All winners will also be given ten crates of Bigi drinks each. Funsho Arogundade, one of the winners stated that Rite Foods is taking its footprint in the creative industry higher by setting the pace and raising the bar for other corporations to emulate. “Rite Foods has clearly demonstrated its unwavering support and commitment to rewarding talents in the country. The bar has been raised for other brands and corporations to emulate this great feat by Rite Foods,” he said. All other contestants were awarded cash prizes of fifty thousand naira each as Nigerian Idol music judges, Obi Asika and DJ Sose were on ground to spice up the contest and select the best Bigi Media Idol of the year. Established in 2007, Rite Foods Limited is a truly world-class and proudly Nigerian Food and Beverage Company, a subsidiary of Ess-Ay Holdings. Its product line comprises the Bigi Cola, Bigi Orange, Bigi Apple, Bigi Bitter Lemon, Bigi Soda Water, Bigi Lemon & Lime, Bigi Tropical, Bigi Chapman, Bigi Tamarind, Bigi Cherry Cola, Bigi Ginger Lemon, Bigi Ginger Ale, Bigi Premium Table Water, Fearless Redberry and Fearless Classic Energy Drinks, Rite Spicy, Bigi Beef Sausage roll and Rite Sausage roll. The company’s inventiveness has earned high recognition in the energy drinks market with the first ever packaged polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle brands for the Fearless Red Berry and Fearless Classic.