The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Danbatta has called on the other state governors to emulate the two states (Anambra and Kaduna) that have entirely waived the RoW charges for Network operators. Professor Danbatta, in his goodwill message at Anambra State Broadband Stakeholders’ Forum tagged: ‘Facilitating Broadband Access Through A Favourable Right of Way Regime’ held recently urged Anambra State governor, His Excellency Dr. Willie Obiano to be our advocate to his other colleagues to emulate their elimination of RoW charges on telecom infrastructures.  The Executive Vice Chair/ CEO at the Anambra State Broadband Infrastructure Development Stakeholders Forum stated that the two Policy and Strategy require the inputs and support of key stakeholders such as the Federal and State Governments, MDA’s and the Private Sector. Indeed the policy and Strategy assigned responsibilities to relevant stakeholders, he added.  Danbatta noted that this for sure will unleash economic wellbeing tomorrow; turning our teaming youths to job creators instead of seekers, for those that choose to be innovators and entrepreneurs and millions of technology jobs for those that choose to seek white collar jobs. Giving up the RoW fees today is like separating seed that you will sow to guaranty a prosperous future (Digital foundation) in numerous thematic areas; Commerce, Education, Agriculture, Finance and Trade Education Health and Social, Business and Industry, Transport and energy, Safety and Security e.t.c According EVC, the result of study has shown that for every 10 percent increase in Broadband penetration, there is a corresponding 1.38% increase in GDP. “The Commission has always encouraged Governments to include Telecommunications infrastructure like ducts and others as they plan their cities and towns. A well planned city is one of the keys to the Digital Economy, a planned city anticipates future development, opens new revenue streams for government and safeguards roads, water pipes, bridges and other infrastructure from unnecessary destruction and re-adjustments to fit-in additional infrastructure in the future, he stated. Danbatta disclosed that the Management and entire Board of the Nigerian Communications focuses on matter that is very dear to our nation Nigeria: Broadband Infrastructure Development which led the Federal Government through the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy to launched two key Policies: the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP) 2020-2025; and the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) 2020-2030. This initiative of Facilitating Broadband Access in Anambra State through a Favourable Right of Way Regime could not have come at a better time, he added. 