The Central Bank of Nigeria Limited (CBN) announced the reconstitution of the Board of Directors of First Bank of Nigeria Limited Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele on Thursday, 29 April 2021, announced the dissolution and reconstituted the new Boards of FBN Holdings Plc and First Bank of Nigeria Limited in pursuant to its power under Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act (BOFIA) 2020.  After removing the directors, the CBN governor announced the appointment of new persons as directors in FBN Ltd and FBN Holdings Plc as per his own mind. Emefiele named them to include Remi Babalola, as chairman and UK Eke as managing director for the newly appointed directors of holding company. Other directors are: Dr Fatade Oluwole, Kofo Dosekun, Remi Lasaki, Dr. Alimi Abdulrasaq, Ahmed Modibbo, Khalifa Imam, and Peter Aliogo. READ ALSO THIS: Tunde Hassan-Odukale to head First Bank new board Chairman- Emefiele For the first bank limited, Emefiele named the chairman as Tunde Hassan-Odukale, while Adesola Adeduntan was reinstated as managing director. Other directors of the bank include: Tokunbo Martins, Uche Nwokedi, Adekunle Sonola, Isioma Ogodazi, Ebenezer Olufowose, and Ishaya Elijah B. Dodo. Gbenga Shobo was returned to his former position of Deputy Managing Director; while Remi Oni and Abdullahi Ibrahim take executive director respectively. Emefiele explained that the CBN begged the board members of First Bank severally not to remove Adeduntan but the pleas were ignored.  He said, “This decision came to us as a surprise. This bank has been under regulatory forbearance intervention since 2016. “The truth is that even before we issued the query yesterday to chairman of the board, copied to all the directors and major shareholders, the initial attempt to remove the Managing Director, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, was leaked to me by an interested party in the course of the board meeting.” Emefiele added, “When I heard about this, I had course, first to call the chairman of the holding company, Mr. Oba Otudeko. He picked my call, I reminded him about the regulatory intervention and forbearance regime in the bank. “And that, the decision to make such sweeping changes would require prior approval of the CBN. I pleaded with him to step down the decision and that we could hold a meeting to discuss the issues later. “Given that the current managing director was running on a tenure that is expected to expire on December 31, 2021 and as far as we are concerned, there was no need for such changes.” The CBN boss stressed that given the apex bank’s regulatory intervention and forbearance regime, it felt that if there was any misconduct on the part of Adeduntan, he should have been queried. He said the CBN should have been informed and the apex bank should have been a party to such an action to punish Adeduntan. “We were not informed of any misconduct, neither were we informed of any query,” the CBN helmsman stated.  The Board of Directors of First Bank of Nigeria Limited is now comprised as follows:   In a statement sent to the AmehNews and endorsed by Folake Ani-Mumuney, Group Head, Marketing & Corporate Communications of the bank saying Dr.Adesola Adeduntan has since resumed work as CEO in line with the directives of the CBN.  “We can confirm that the Bank is cooperating with the Central Bank of Nigeria and other regulators while the operations of the Bank are not hampered or hindered in any way and are in fact running smoothly.  “We further wish to reassure the public, our esteemed customers and stakeholders in the words of the Governor of the Central Bank in concluding his press conference,  “The CBN hereby reassures the depositors, creditors and other stakeholders of the bank of its commitment to ensuring the stability of the financial system. There is therefore no cause for panic amongst the banking public, given that the actions being taken are meant to strengthen the Bank and position it as a banking industry giant.”  The Captioned Photo: The Board of Directors of First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Chairman, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale 