 The Nigerian Communications Commission is keenly aware of the critical need to harness the contributions of all critical Stakeholders across all industry platforms and professional groups to ensure that Nigerians fully participate in the Fourth Industrial Revolution as drivers and innovators Professor Umar Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) and Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) in Keynote said the theme of this Discourse in its proper context; permit me to start by highlighting the historical perspective to the revolutionary trends which have brought humanity to its present position.  The Theme of this Discourse is “Powering the Fourth Industrial Revolution in Nigeria” event at Virtual 3rd Discourse Series of the Advocaat Law Practice, held On Thursday April 29, 2021 READ ALSO THIS: Nigeria is equip with Policy, Regulatory frameworks and instruments to power the 4th Industrial Revolution-NCC  EVC was ably represented at the event by the Executive Commissioner, Stakeholder Management, NCC, Barrister Adeleke Adewolu cited a statement from the letter of invitation which correctly noted that, “the three previous industrial revolutions … have liberated mankind from animal production, made mass production possible, and brought about digital capabilities to billions of people. The fourth industrial revolution brings with it the potential to connect billions of people to digital networks ad dramatically improve the efficiency of organisations”. Prof Danbatta said putting this within the Nigerian context, the challenge before us today is clear. It is one we must approach with the strongest resolve, and with the full co-operation of all critical Stakeholders in order to ensure that “no one is left behind” in the evolving digital future, he added.  EVC noted that I tried to capture this challenge at an earlier forum in the following words: we “must take drastic and deliberate measures by reawakening our consciousness to the power of technology in this 4th Industrial Revolution, where technologically advanced nations are the ones dictating the pace of the global economy. The ongoing trade war between China and the United States is a testament to this reality. As African nations, we must strive to reposition our various economies for digital prosperity and abundance to drive efficiency, productivity and create jobs for the tsunami of our youth population to deploy their creative energy for African economic development.” Policy and Regulatory: NCC Boss said that as you would note from the above context, we can only harness the opportunities of the 4th Industrial Revolution as a nation if we put in place effective guiding frameworks, to address the various aspects of the digital ecosystem and ensure their effective interworking in the national interest. In this regard, he affirmed that Nigeria is not lacking in key Policy and Regulatory frameworks and instruments which will enable us to play a leading role in powering the 4th Industrial Revolution. He cited an example, The National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy Policy (2020-2030) boasts of eight (8) pillars designed to, amongst others o   Enable Nigeria become a leading player in the global digital economy; o   Provide a catalyst to facilitate the diversification of the economy; and o   Accelerate the attainment of the key national objectives of improving security, reducing corruption and expanding the economy. Similarly, he noted saying the Nigerian National Broadband Policy (2020-2024) clearly highlights the various implementation strategies that would aid the pervasive inclusion and rollout of broadband services across the country whilst also developing a robust and holistic digital economy.  “The NCC’s Strategic Management Plan (SMP 2020-2024 or “ASPIRE 2024”) consolidated on the vision we earlier articulated in the Strategic Vision Plan and 8-Point Agenda. We have responded to the policy goals highlighted above to harness the immense socio-economic benefits of ICT for national development; to ensure that ICT infrastructure are up to the standard necessary to provide ubiquitous broadband services in Nigeria; and to align the Commission’s regulatory efforts with the aforementioned Policy Instruments, as well as the growth strategies of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) to ensure Growth, Inclusiveness, and Sustainability. We have recorded a number of significant achievements in this regard. These include:  Instruments:  Prof Danbatta said confidently that these strides will enable the telecommunications sector provide the infrastructure backbone for powering the Fourth Industrial Revolution in Nigeria. According to him, we are firmly committed to ensure that Nigerians in Nigeria play a leading role in Artificial Intelligence, Cloud Computing, Internet of Things (IoT), Robotics, Blockchain, Autonomous Vehicle, Drones and other innovative technologies which are now driving growth and national competitiveness.  “The question of regulation of disruptive technologies without stultifying innovation is one that we, like all other regulators globally, are carefully studying. For now, we have maintained a sharp focus on critical cross-cutting aspects like consumer protection, enhancement of competition, data protection and enhancement of trust in digital platforms through the prevention of cybercrimes and other abuses.   The Captioned Photo: The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), The Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) and Chief Executive Officer, Professor Umar Danbatta