The Peoples Democratic Party in the South-West on Friday disclosed that in the interest of peace, the party and a former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, had to persuade the Governor of Oyo State, Mr Seyi Makinde, to agree with those who wanted the venue of the congress to be moved to Osun State. The party, however, called on a former governor of Ekiti State, Mr Ayodele Fayose, not to allow himself to be used by the All Progressives Congress to destabilise the party. The party’s zonal publicity secretary, Chief Sanya Atofarati, who expressed doubt whether Fayose indeed wanted the party to bounce back, said in a statement that the party was surprised and disappointed by Fayose’s utterances after the election, considering what he said during the congress that he would abide and accept whatever the outcome of the congress was. “It says more about the person of the former governor,” he added. Atofarati said, “It would be recalled that Fayose had earlier approached a Lagos court that the congress should not be held in Ibadan, but (he) failed. It was after several efforts by the National Working Committee and the Senator Bukola Saraki-led reconciliation committee in persuading the Oyo State Governor, Mr Seyi Makinde, to in the interest of unity and progress of the party, agree that the venue of the congress be shifted to Osogbo in Osun State.” Fayose had alleged in an interview on Channels Television after the congress that the process that led to Taofeek Arapaja’s victory as the PDP zonal chairman was compromised and fraught with irregularities. At the congress, Makinde’s candidate, Arapaja, defeated Fayose’s candidate, Dr Eddy Olafeso, to become South-West PDP chairman. But in the statement, titled, ‘S’West Congress: Let your word be your bond, PDP chides Fayose’, the zonal spokesperson said, “The appeal to Fayose is not to allow himself to be used as a destabilising factor by the elements of the ruling APC. “Democracy is not a private enterprise where anyone can assume proprietorship and dictate where and how things should be at all times. It is quite unfortunate that Fayose could accuse the NWC of manipulation after he failed in several attempts to frustrate the congress. Makinde, Fayose disagreement dangerous –UK PDP The South-West Zone of the United Kingdom Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party on Friday, urged Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State and a former Ekiti State governor, Ayo Fayose, to ensure that their disagreement does not affect the fortune of the party in the region. A statement by the chairman, PDP South-West Zone in the UK, Mr ‘Soji Adewusi, obtained in Osogbo, commended the former leadership under Dr Eddy Olafeso while assuring the new leadership of Ambassador Taofiq Arapaja in the zone of maximum support for the party to return to power. Adewusi however expressed concern that the gains of the successful congress would be eroded if the disagreement between Makinde and Fayose was allowed to fester. Adewusi said, “More importantly, we plead with leaders of our party to ensure that the current disagreement between Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state and former governor Ayo Fayose is managed in such a way that it does not affect the fortune of PDP. “The disagreement is dangerous. And we are of the opinion that the earlier the crisis is resolved, the better for us as a party, bearing in mind the crucial governorship election coming up in Ekiti and Osun states next year.”