The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) represents the interests of over 3,000 manufacturers (small; medium; large and multinational industries) spread across 10 sectors, 76 sub-sectors and 16 industrial zones. Manufacturers are heavy users of electricity in Nigeria and this necessitated the Association’s keen interest in all electricity related discourse and development, particularly electricity supply and tariff.  According to the press statement endorsed by Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of MAN and sent to The AmehNews stated the position of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria on the recent increase in electricity tariff saying the manufacturing sector employs over 5 million workers, directly and indirectly with8.93% contribution to Gross Domestic Product. The sector also dominates export trade in the West African region, generates foreign exchange, and contributes substantially to revenue of Government and human capital development in Nigeria, he added.  “It is therefore imperative that the performance of sector is enhanced through a pro-manufacturing policy that will encourage scale and lower unit cost of production rather that throwing fiery darts that will worsen its performance.  “Top on the list of challenges confronting the sector is the issue of inadequate electricity supply and this has been largely responsible for the lackluster performance of the sector for some decades now. In fact, electricity related expenses of a manufacturing concern constitute about 40% of the production overhead in some sub- sectors. This is not growth friendly and is antithetical to competitiveness. The Director General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria said Association is greatly concerned about the revised Multi Year Tariff Order (MYTO) for January to June 2021 signed by the new Chairman of NERC, Engr Sanusi Garba on December 30, 2020, with the adjustment of N2.00 to N4.00 per kilowatt per hour of electricity, effective January 1, 2021. He noted that the two obvious questions that come to mind are: – should any increase in electricity tariff be approved before consultations with stakeholders and are the prevailing macroeconomic fundamentals congenial for an increase?  Obviously, Ajayi-Kadir said, this increase in tariff, which is coming at the commencement of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and barely 3 months after the huge increment was imposed on electricity users in October 2020, is not manufacturing friendly. He further noted that it appears to be insensitive to the prevailing precarious situation of the sector adding that the increase is coming at a wrong time and would clearly reverse the little gains in the recent past.  “This is against the background of prevailing harsh operating environment, the increasing burden of taxes, the enormous spending on self-generated electricity up to the tune of N70billion (excluding hundreds of billions Naira spent on settling monthly electricity bills) and the ailing state of a sector that is just recovering from a lockdown occasioned by the ravaging Covid-19 pandemic.  “We are worried that the recent increase in price of electricity will have overwhelming negative impact on the Nigerian economy, especially the manufacturing sector.