An indigenous airliner, Air Peace, has announced resumption of suspended routes, even as the firm unveiled new domestic routes. The management of Air Peace also hinted that the feat is in a bid to expand its routes. In a statement issued by the Chief Operating Officer, Air Peace, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Olajide said the initiative would help to drive the organisation’s vision to interconnect several cities.  She also noted the airline would be receiving all its aircraft on overseas maintenance in February, 2021, which led to the decision to unveiling the new routes as well as announcing the resumption suspended ones.  Olajide explained further that the unveiling of the new routes was an effort to underscore the airline’s strong resolve to meeting the air transportation needs of the nation’s citizenry.  She added that the launch of the new routes would help drive economic development and foster unity amongst various parts of the country.  “As you know, most of our aircraft are on maintenance in different parts of the world but they are all returning in February.”  For us, it is great news as this means the launch of new routes and the resumption of routes suspended consequent upon the Covid-19 outbreak,” Olajide said.  She, however, stressed that the new connections were also a testimony to Air Peace’s ‘no-city-left-behind’ initiative and unbridled determination to provide affordable access to safe and seamless connectivity across the country and beyond.  Olajide pointed out that the airline was always reviewing its route network, towards ensuring the air travel needs of air passengers.  “The airline also boasts of a fleet size of 26 aircraft and is steadily expanding its fleet as it expects to take delivery of its first Embraer 195-E2 aircraft this month.  “The new routes to be launched in February are: Enugu-Kano-Enugu, Enugu-Asaba-Enugu, PHC-Kano-PHC, PHC-Kaduna-PHC, Ilorin-Lagos-Ilorin, Ilorin-Abuja-Ilorin and Ibadan-Abuja-Ibadan.”  The suspended routes to be resumed are Kano-Owerri-Kano, Kano-Asaba-Kano, Lagos-Yola-Lagos and Abuja-Yola-Abuja,” she said