 Experts have advocated using quality pillows for proper spine alignment during sleep to prevent aches and pains that can be detrimental to physical and mental wellbeing. They have also strongly recommended Mouka brand of pillows, and mattresses, because of their high quality, having met the ergonomic standards. These were the submission of Dr. Onigbinde Ayodele Teslim, National President, National Association of Orthopaedic Manual Therapists (NAOMT) and Dr Nnenna Chigbo, PT. President, Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP) while urging Nigerians to maintain a healthy sleep culture for better wellbeing. Teslim pointed out that poor ergonomic compliance in most mattresses and pillows result in unhealthy sleep due to aches and pains from their usage. This situation also leads to poor postural alignments and deformities. The NAOMT President stated that to maintain spine neutrality, quality pillows, like those of Mouka, should align the neck with other body parts to support good posture. “There are several pillow brands in the market, but only Mouka that NAOMT is currently satisfied with have met the ergonomic standard. This is why we recommend them to consumers,” he said. Teslim, an Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Rehabilitation and Pharmacophysiotherapy at Obafemi Awolowo University, stressed that non-usage of pillows during sleep results in uneven pressure distribution in the neck muscles. This is why some individuals may experience neck pain, stiffness, and headaches, affecting work performance and economic wellbeing. “Mouka is the standard for comfortable mattresses and pillows which can prevent pains and poor postural alignment. The team of experts in NAOMT have assessed the production protocols and finished products of Mouka and have found that they met the international standard. The durability, quality and ergonomic compliance are satisfactory,” he posits. In the same vein, Dr. Chigbo said specific cells that help fight infection in the body increases significantly during healthy sleep, and quality mattresses and pillows determine a great deal how well one sleeps, as the body needs to align with them.  She affirmed that pillows like those of Mouka, keep the upper body aligned, thereby relieving pressure and counterbalance the joints in the body. “When you are not comfortable on the mattress or pillow, it will affect the quality of your sleep, and this can be detrimental to your physical and mental health,” she said. According to her, the NSP strongly recommends Mouka’s Wellbeing range of orthopaedic mattresses and quality pillows because of the reliable quality the company has exhibited over the past 60 years. “We have evaluated Mouka’s manufacturing processes, and we are confident they meet international standards,” Chigbo enthused. Both experts advised that consumers should always replace their pillows every 1-2 years.