Mouka, Nigeria’s foremost manufacturer of mattresses and other bedding products celebrates families with babies born on New Year’s Day, in Lagos, Ogun and Oyo States in furtherance of its commitment of adding value to life. From Left: Mouka Business Partner Manager, Samuel Arokoyo, with Mother of the First Baby of the Year, Mrs Adesokan Adebola; Chief Medical Director, University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Prof. Jese Abiodun Otegbayo; and Vice President, Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP), Dr Felix Odusanya; at the presentation of gifts to the First baby of the year by Mouka, at UCH, Ibadan, Oyo State, on January 1, 2021. Mouka presented gifts to mothers of the first babies at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Shagamu, in Ogun State, and the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Oyo State. The gifts comprised of Dreamtime Baby mattress, Mouka baby mat, baby wipes and diapers.  First Lady of the State, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, the wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs Oluremi Hamzat, and other top Government functionaries who were part of the Governor’s wife entourage, made donations to first babies at select hospitals including LASUTH, to mark the New Year celebration. Commenting on the initiative, the Chief Operating Officer, Mouka, Femi Fapohunda, said as the owners of sleep in Nigeria, Mouka continues to advocate a healthy sleep culture, especially for children. This is why Mouka donates Dreamtime mattresses specially designed with children in mind, to the first babies of the year.  The Dreamtime mattress is water-resistant yet breathable to keep the body cool. It is also made with the right density of foam to keep children comfortable while they sleep.  Fapohunda pointed out that quality sleep is associated with physical and cognitive development in children which is why it associates itself with the worthy programme of the Lagos First Lady and others in the region, bringing succour to families of first babies.  Last year, the socially responsible company also partnered with the Office of the First Lady of Lagos State to celebrate the first babies. From Left: Consultant Respiratologist, Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Dr. Bola Adefuye; with mother of the First Baby of the Year, Mrs Odunaya Damilola; Chief Medical Director, OOUTH, Dr. Peter Adefuye; Deputy Director, Nursing Services, OOUTH, Mrs. Kikelomo Enaholo; Rep. Director of Admin., OOUTH, Mr. Amoo Soboyede; Regional Sales Manager, Mouka, Oluyemi Ogunbase; and the Principal Information Officer, OOUTH, Mrs. Mopelola Adenuga; at the presentation of gifts to the First baby of the year by Mouka, at OOUTH, Shagamu, Ogun State, on January 1, 2021.  Speaking with much joy and smile on his face, the father of the first baby at LASUTH, Oluwapelumi Fagade and his wife Adesola commended Mouka for the valuable gifts.  For over 61 years, Mouka has grown to become Nigeria’s preferred brand of mattresses and other bedding products.  Mouka has a wide range of quality products such as Wellbeing orthopaedic mattresses, Klinic hospital mattress, Mondeo Plus spring mattress, and an assortment of pillows to help Nigerians sleep well and wake up refreshed.