MultiChoice is delighted to bring back the hugely popular Step Up campaign offer to its DStv and GOtv customers this January. The Step Up campaign offer gives all active and disconnected DStv Compact, Confam and Yanga customers the opportunity to pay for a package a step above their current package and get a boost to view programming on the next higher package. While customers on GOtv Jolli and Jinja can upgrade to enjoy GOtv Max for less at a special discount of N2,999 instead of N3,600 per month. All the upgrades are scheduled to happen within 48 hours and will be available from Thursday, 14 January till Wednesday, 31 March 2021. “Through the Step Up and Max for Less campaign offers, we are giving our DStv and GOtv customers something to get excited about this January,” said Martin Mabutho, Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria. Mabutho further said: “We started this special offer back in 2019 as a way of giving customers on the lower packages a chance to enjoy quality video entertainment on our higher DStv and GOtv packages for less. We are pleased with the popularity and acceptance of the offer, so we are making it available once more to both new and existing customers. It promises to be even more exciting as customers who take advantage of this offer will be exposed to even more great entertainment starting this January.” DStv customers on the Yanga package can pay N4,615 for Confam package and then get a boost to view programmes on the next higher package, Compact; while customers on the Confam package can pay N7,900 for Compact and instead view Compact Plus package programming. Likewise, Compact customers only pay N12,400 for Compact Plus package and in turn get Premium package worth N18,400 per month. January is booked with different exciting programming such as, brand new seasons of exciting shows and drama series on Africa Magic starting with Date My Family S2 premiere on Sunday, 17th January at 6pm on AM Showcase; My Siblings & I S3 on Monday, 18th January at 6:30pm on AM Urban and Unmarried S2 on Wednesday, 20th January at 9pm on AM Showcase. Launch of the M-Net Movies 007 James Bond Pop-Up Channel 111 on Friday, 22nd January to Monday, 31st January 2021 on DStv Premium, Compact Plus and Compact. The 2020/21 Football Season continues with the best leagues and cup tournaments on SuperSport. Watch Liverpool vs Manchester United on Sunday 17th January at 5:30pm and Manchester United vs Liverpool on Saturday, 23rd January at 4pm on SuperSport Premier League. Emirates FA Cup 4th round match between Leicester City vs Chelsea on Tuesday, 19th January at 9:15pm on SuperSport Premier League. In Serie A, Sunday, 17th January at 8:45pm is Inter Milan vs Juventus on SuperSport Variety 3 on DStv SuperSport Select 1 on GOtv while in La Liga, Real Sociedad vs Real Betis will air on Saturday, 23rd January at 6:30pm and Athletico Madrid vs Valencia on Sunday, 24th January at 9pm on SuperSport La Liga. Exclusive GOtv Max content including all La Liga, Serie A, twice as more Premier League and UEFA Champions League matches, M-Net Movies 4, BET, Cartoon Network, StarLife, ROK 2, CBS Reality and more. The Step Up and Max for Less offer is open to both active and disconnected DStv Yanga, Confam and Compact customers and GOtv Jolli and Jinja customers. For more information on this limited time offer as well as other products and services, please visit: www.dstvafrica.com or www.gotvafrica.com