Airtel Africa, a leading provider of telecommunications and mobile money services, with a presence in 14 countries across Africa, in a statement announces the success of renewal of its application for the spectrum licences in the 900MHz and 1800MHz bands for its Nigerian subsidiary, Airtel Networks Limited (“Airtel Nigeria”), saying application has been approved by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).  The statement which was sent to the AmehNews further disclosed that these spectrum licences were otherwise due to expire on 30 November 2021.  The report pointed out that following the application’s approval, the NCC subsequently offered Airtel Nigeria the opportunity to renew its spectrum licences in the 900MHz and 1800MHz bands for a period of ten years with effect from 1 December 2021 until30November 2031, which Airtel Nigeria has accepted.  Under the terms of the spectrum licences Airtel Nigeria has paid 71.611billion naira ($189m) in respect of the licence renewal fees.  Commenting on the process, mr Raghunath Mandava, CEO of Airtel Africa, said: “I am pleased to announce that our application in Nigeria to renew our spectrum licences in the 900MHz and 1800MHz bands for a ten-year period has been approved by the NCC.  This is our largest market and we remain focused on bridging the digital divide and expanding our broadband capability in the country. On behalf of Airtel Nigeria and the Group, I would like to thank both the government of Nigeria and the NCC for their cooperation and support in this important process.” About Airtel Africa: Airtel Africa is a leading provider of telecommunications and mobile money services, with a presence in 14 countries in Africa, primarily in East Africa and Central and West Africa. Airtel Africa offers an integrated suite of telecommunications solutions to its subscribers, including mobile voice and data services as well as mobile money services both nationally and internationally. The Group aims to continue providing a simple and intuitive customer experience through streamlined customer journeys. www.airtel.africa