Management of the MultiChoice Nigeria is Nigeria’s pioneer pay TV service provider said as part of our ongoing effort to enhance our customers’ viewing experience and delight them with additional content; MultiChoice is thrilled to bring this latest venture in African storytelling. HONEY will be launches on Friday, 12 February 2021 and will be available for Premium Compact Plus, and Compact.MultiChoice- Africa’s most-loved storyteller is proud to announce a brand-new Pan-African lifestyle channel on our DStv platforms, HONEY, on DStv channel 173. According to the source, HONEY is a bold, unscripted lifestyle TV channel for curious and connected Africans. The channel is about celebrating and exploring African lives and loves, and the content is focused on lifestyle, fashion, food, weddings, dating, as well as reality. Commenting about HONEY, the CEO, MultiChoice Nigeria, John Ugbe, says the move follows consistent, upward lifestyle-viewership trends on the continent. “DStv is thrilled to launch HONEY. The channel is part of our commitment to keep bringing fresh, authentic, and local content to our Nigerian subscribers. For many years, we’ve seen lifestyle is a popular genre on the country; and now our subscribers will see their own talent, food, celebrations, and their families as the well-deserved hero.” The statement disclosed that the channel will be broadcast in all key African regions including Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Uganda, Namibia, Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, Angola, Mozambique, Tanzania, DRC, Cameroon, and South Africa. Keeping with the continent’s effervescent energy and vibrancy, the channel will be a tapestry of African producers with exciting storylines and cross-continental casting, making HONEY, a go-to channel for authentic African storytelling. Also speaking in the same vein, the Head of Content at MultiChoice, Aletta Alberts says: “Africa’s dynamism and way of life is the perfect ingredient for this exciting channel. HONEY is going to add a sweet and sticky flavour to our subscriber offering. Lifestyle content is the ideal vehicle to reflect the continent’s diversity and sameness. Everyone curious about food, style, and weddings is in for a treat.” READ ALSO THIS: MultiChoice to Unveils Authentic African storytelling tagged “HONEY” on DStv platforms The MultiChoice channel is packaged by Media24’s television unit, which is also responsible for Afrikaans lifestyle channel, VIA. Meanwhile, Izelle Venter, HONEY’s Channel Head says: “Media24 is delighted to collaborate with MultiChoice on this new adventure. The goal is to combine both companies’ best qualities, experiences, and knowledge to serve DStv subscribers with a new channel that is familiar, unique and entertaining.” The key ingredient to HONEY is the channel’s focus on authentic African storytelling. In a ground-breaking content creation model, the channel has partnered with producers from all corners of the continent to create hundreds of fresh hours of exciting African shows, ensuring that HONEY is indeed the place where all Africans feel at home. “We are working with producers across the continent to ensure the lifestyle stories we tell are real and relevant,” says Zinzi Velelo, HONEY’s Head of Content. “Our goal is to showcase the characters, talent and dynamics of everyday African life as never before.” “Manage your subscription via the MyDStv app and enjoy this channel and more on the go, anywhere and anytime using the DStv app and Showmax” 