Gombe State governor, Inuwa Yahaya, on Friday said his administration would spare no effort in taking advantage of the renewable energy plan of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) which is designed to boost alternative power supply and bio fuel source in the country. Yahaya stated this when he played host to the Group General Manager, Renewable Energy Division of the NNPC, Dr. David Balarabe Ture, who led a team from the corporation on a tour of designated areas for the sugarcane fuel ethanol project in Gombe State. The governor said the decision by his administration to constitute a committee on the bio- fuel project was consequent upon his discussions with the former Group General Manager of the Division which placed him in a vantage position to take informed decisions towards the realization of the project. He assured the GGM that his administration would race against time and do all it takes to see to the actualization of the project in view of its immense benefit to the people of the State. “And we know that once we are able to do this at least the major thing that is a hindrance to the springing up of industries and commercial activities which are power can be addressed. By the records I got, we could have up to 60 megawatts which will serve not only Gombe but the whole of the Northeast.” Yahaya welcomed the suggestion that his administration takes a second look at the feasibility study of the project and the Environmental Impact Assessment, EIA. “I know for sure that at the highest level people like you and even the GMD are interested in this project, equally, when I visited Mr. President, we talked about this project. You know the whole of the belt from Dadin kowa to Gombe Abba is arable and irrigable land and there is no reason whatsoever that we cannot utilize it to improve on our Agricultural and other potentials for the benefit of the common man. “ He said in view of the importance his administration attaches to the sugarcane fuel  ethanol project, he will personally keep constant tap on developments to monitor its progress. Yahaya used the occasion to express appreciation to the Upper Benue River Basin Development Authority, saying both the State  Government and the Authority operate as allies on this and many other projects.