 Troubleshooting efforts to douse the tension generated by conflicts between herders and host communities, particularly in the South-west paid off yesterday as governors and the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association (MACBAN) rose from a meeting, agreeing to ban open grazing, including underage and night herding. The governors, under the aegis of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) and MACBAN, at the meeting in Akure, also agreed with the Ondo State Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), on issues that necessitated the issuance of a seven-day ultimatum asking unregistered herders to quit the state’s forest reserves. MACBAN, the group that has been speaking for herders, until yesterday had opposed the ban on open grazing and insisted that it would alter the itinerary nature and culture of the herders, who for years, have roamed their cattle from the North to the South of the country. It has also persistently opposed the idea of ranching for the same reason.
However, in a communiqué, issued at the end of the meeting, the NGF and the MACBAN agreed to end “free-range grazing” and kicked against the illegal occupation of forest reserves in states.
The meeting, at the instance of the presidency, was convened in the wake of the tension generated by Akeredolu’s deadline to illegal herdsmen to vacate the state’s forest reserves as part of precautions to combat kidnapping, robbery and murder, allegedly being perpetrated by the herders. The meeting came just as a former Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), Prof. Usman Yusuf, and a public affairs analyst, Col. Tony Nyiam (rtd), called on President Muhammadu Buhari to take responsibility for protecting lives and property of Nigerians, stressing that the increasing cases of kidnapping, banditry and criminality by herdsmen are signs of a failed government. Chaired by the NGF Chairman and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the meeting was attended by the leadership of MACBAN led by its Chairman, Alhaji Muhammadu Kiruwa; governors, Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Akeredolu (Ondo), Muhammed Badaru (Jigawa), and Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), and heads of security agencies in the states.
In the communiqué read by Fayemi, the stakeholders agreed that night and free-range grazing should be banned henceforth.
In banning underage herding, they described it as inimical to national security. The stakeholders condemned herders’ occupation of state forest reserves and described it as illegal.
Fayemi said the meeting was conveyed to find lasting solutions to the incessant killings, kidnapping and crises between herdsmen and farmers in the South-west. He said free-range grazing must be stopped to avoid conflicts between the farmers and the herders.
“MACBAN should embrace and be committed to modern breeding process by creating grazing reserves and practice ranching to prevent cattle roaming about,” the communiqué said.
The communique clarified that the Ondo State governor’s ultimatum was for illegal occupants of the forest reserves, saying the media misrepresented his directive. “No one had sent anyone away from any state or region but all hands must be on deck to fight criminality,” it stated directing: “Criminals should be apprehended and punished, no matter their origin, class or status.” Saying security agencies have been trying to stem the tide of criminality in the country but must step up their efforts in the fight, the communique recommended strengthening alternative security arrangements to complement the mainstream security agencies.
It also stressed the need to build a partnership for peace and security with MACBAN and jointly wage war against criminality.
“Insecurity is a national challenge and not peculiar to any tribe or region but must be addressed by the cooperation of all,” it added. Noting that MACBAN also suffers insecurity and kidnapping and thus desire peaceful coexistence, the communiqué said the association is ready for any peaceful move by the states to engender security.
As a measure to strengthen the relationship among various stakeholders, the communiqué recommended the setting up of a standing committee comprising farmers, MACBAN and the government in each state (where they don’t exist) to ensure synergy and result. It urged states to create economic opportunities for the people and reduce opportunities for criminalities.
Earlier in their opening remarks, the various stakeholders had highlighted happenings in their states for discussion.
Fayemi used the opportunity to clarify that herdsmen were not asked to vacate Ondo State as Akeredolu did not order the Fulani to leave the state. Fayemi said: “Many members of MACBAN were born in the South-west. So, Akeredolu cannot ask Fulani to vacate Ondo State. The area concerned is the forest reserves and it is about registration and also to work in line with the law.
“What we are after are the criminals, not Fulani herdsmen. Criminals are criminals irrespective of their ethnic group.”