The President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) said the Association is committed to strengthening its relationship with the press as we are confident of attaining more milestones through your resolute support in giving our activities and programmes the publicity they deserve Engr. Mansur Ahmed, the President, Manufacturers Association Of Nigeria (MAN) in his welcome address at The 2021edition of The Man Reporter Of The Year Award/Presidential Media Luncheon Held On Thursday January 28, 2021 At Man House, 77 Obafemi Awolowo Way, Ikeja, Lagos.  Engr Ahmed noted that our partners for constantly championing the course of the manufacturing sector through your in-depth reportage of the Association’s activities on your various media platforms. READ ALSO THIS: MAN reaffirms commitment to strengthening its relationship with Media – MAN President “As a Business Membership Organization, we certainly hold the fourth estate of the realm in high esteem owing to the intrinsic role you play as the conscience of society. “Our annual engagement has proved to be very useful as it has provided me the opportunity of not only appreciating you for a job well done but also to share first hand, the pulse of the manufacturing sector as well as get feedback from you.  The Man President pointed out that the feedback received from the team of assessors of your entries is very encouraging, judging from the intellectual creativity deployed in presenting the views of the Association through written and broadcast messages on your respective platforms. According to him this says a lot about your level of commitment to the growth and development of the manufacturing sector and the economy in general.  “The “MAN Reporter of the Year Award” has come to stay as this is one of the many ways we can acknowledge your contribution to the Association and off course reward excellence. Congratulations to all the winners in advance as I must say your efforts are very commendable.  “Indeed, year 2020 was quite challenging partly due to some perennial issues bedeviling the sector and others thrown up by COVID-19 pandemic and the hijacked EndSARS demonstration which placed immense pressure on the social and economic structures of the economy.  “Significant amongst the challenges faced by manufacturers are difficulty in accessing forex to procure raw materials not locally available ; high cost of electricity/power; high cost of transportation; low demand of commodity; difficulty in accessing funds; regulatory Issue from numerous regulatory agencies; poor port administration and unavailability of raw materials; policy somersaults, but to mention a few.  He said the implication of these challenges highlighted is that it impedes the growth and development of the manufacturing sector, thereby affecting the attainment of the sector’s full potential of massive job and wealth creation.  Nonetheless, MAN commends the Government on the decision to reopen the land borders for ease of trade engagements particularly under the implementation phase of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) which took effect from January 1, 2021, he added.  MAN president reminded the stakeholders that the AfCFTA has the potential to build Africa’s capacity to manufacture and change the narrative of African economy and give Africa a stronger voice and positioning in the global economy as we go on.  More so, he said I am confident that there will be a tremendous opportunity for growth and development for each and every one if the countries that signed this agreement are willing to come together to make it a success. But this cannot come without challenges, he stressed.  “A possible challenge that stares us in the face is the issue of dumping.   The dumping issue frankly is a matter of political will. Do our governments and political leaders have the political will to agree on those things that we have to do? For instance, to ensure that we do not allow dumping to take place, there is needed to ensure that all countries operate based on the rule of origin that has been agreed. But the difference is that while some countries will ensure that these regulations are complied with, others unfortunately will not do so. This calls for effective monitoring mechanism to be put in place to ensure that all countries do the right thing.  However, Engr Ahmed revealed that at the level of the Association we have conducted series of webinar workshops for our members to get them fully prepared to take advantage of the opportunities that are imbedded in the agreement; while we trust that the Nigerian government will play its part to put adequate measures in place for a beneficial trade agreement. We look forward to an effective National Action Committee on the AfCFTA, he said.  MAN President disclosed that from our quarterly research, aggregate Manufacturers CEOs Confidence Index (MCCI) shows that the CEOs confidence oscillated under the 50 neutral points: 44.4 points in Q1; 40.2 points in Q2: 43.3 points in Q3; and then 42.06 in Q4 2020. The trend is a strong indication of lack of confidence of manufacturers in the economy in the whole of 2020 and that the manufacturing sector is indeed gasping for breath, he added.  “As we project for improvement in 2021, it is imperative that the management of the macro economy is approached more pragmatically and the development of the productive capacities of nation is intentionally enhanced.  The Captioned Photo: The President, Manufacturers Association Of Nigeria (MAN), Engr. Mansur Ahmed