 The Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, yesterday vowed that the police would arrest the arsonists involved in the inferno that razed the house of Chief Sunday Adeyemi, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, in Ibadan, Oyo State last Tuesday. He called on Nigerians with credible information about the perpetrators to avail the police with the necessary intelligence. Adamu has also underscored the need for police personnel to have a comfortable accommodation.
The IG stated these at the inauguration of the Senior Police Officer (SPOs) Quarters, in Ikeja, Lagos. The block of 10 luxury flats was constructed and designed by a private developer, Black Qoral Concepts Limited. While condemning the action of the arsonists, he said it was a criminal act, thus the law would take its course on the perpetrators when arrested. He said: “Anybody that goes to burn anybody’s property it is nothing but a criminal. We have already asked our men to fish out whoever did that and the person will be punished.
“We have laws in this country and we must respect them. If anybody runs afoul of the law, he must be punished. “Every citizen of this country has a responsibility to this country too. Therefore, those who have information on the arsonists should come out and give it to the police to enable the police to do their job.” The commissioned SPO’s building, which is a block of 10 flats, with a twin one still under construction, according to him, was part of the welfare package for policemen. He said the welfare of officers and men is paramount. According to him, “We are out for redevelopment, renovation and reconstruction of all barracks across the country. “What you are seeing today, is one of those initiatives to redevelop our existing barracks and allow our officers to get a befitting place to stay. “We are assuring our officers that with the federal government’s initiative of Public/Private Partnership, we will develop all our barracks in the country. We will build and sell to our officers through mortgage at a lower price. This is in addition to their official residences.” He said the police force has been constantly challenged by limited military provisions hence it became expedient that the force works towards guaranteeing a humane and befitting living condition for police personnel. However, he pointed out that despite a partnership with private developers to help build housing estates for the force and elevate the standard of living, the challenge of regenerating police barracks remained. He added that the partnership with Black Qoral offers hope of yielding desired results.
“As you know, policing is a noble profession, which is mentally and physically demanding. As such every police personnel deserve a decent home to return to after an exhaustive day of duty,” he said. He assured Nigerians that with the federal government’s public-private initiative that police barracks scattered in the country, which are mostly in a poor state will be redeveloped. The newly commissioned block of flats is the first phase of the redevelopment plan of the senior police officers’ living quarters in Ikeja GRA to replace those built since the 1950s which have become rundown and almost inhabitable.