 The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has cautioned Nigerians not to allow COVID-19 Infections to escalate to a level that it will stretch health facilities. NCDC Director-General, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, said yesterday at the PTF briefing that Nigeria has recorded a consistent increase in confirmed COVID-19 cases since the beginning of the Yuletide season till date. “The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is issuing this public health advisory to alert the public that the non-adherence to public health and social measures is exacerbating the public health response efforts to limit the continued spread of COVID-19,” he stated. According to him, the average number of daily confirmed cases recorded in the first week of January 2021, is higher than the cumulative cases recorded in the last week of December 2020. He said that following the festive season, and in view of the increase in the number of confirmed cases in Nigeria, the NCDC and partners, with leadership from the Federal Ministry of Health and Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, are putting in place measures to strengthen the public health response to the pandemic. “While the public may be tired of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact, the virus is taking advantage of the fatigue and complacency, instead gaining momentum and taking advantage of lapses in the adherence to the public health measures. To prevent the further spread of COVID-19, the public is reminded to wear a face mask properly, wash hands with soap and water, and physically distance from others. “This is not the time to let down our guard. The virus that causes COVID-19 never went away and is still very much with us, as evidenced by the rising cases in Nigeria and globally. “COVID-19 can affect all age groups with severe outcomes in the elderly (50 years and above), and in persons with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cancer etc. Recently there has been increased infection among the younger age groups, therefore, NCDC urges all persons to take responsibility and adhere to the non-pharmaceutical interventions (regular hand washing, maintaining physical distance and proper use of face mask),” he said.