The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) represents the interests of over 3,000 manufacturers (small; medium; large and multinational industries) spread across 10 sectors, 76 sub-sectors and 16 industrial zones. According to the Association, manufacturers are heavy users of electricity in Nigeria and this necessitated the Association’s keen interest in all electricity related discourse and development, particularly electricity supply and tariff.  The manufacturing sector employs over 5 million workers, directly and indirectly with8.93% contribution to Gross Domestic Product, it added. “The sector also dominates export trade in the West African region, generates foreign exchange, contributes substantially to revenue of Government and human capital development in Nigeria  According to the press statement endorsed by Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of MAN and sent to The AmehNews stated the position of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria on the recent increase in electricity tariff saying the manufacturing sector employs over 5 million workers, directly and indirectly with8.93% contribution to Gross Domestic Product. The sector also dominates export trade in the West African region, generates foreign exchange, and contributes substantially to revenue of Government and human capital development in Nigeria, he added.   Man pointed out that the manufacturing sector, which is the engine of sustainable growth, is still struggling with the debilitating impact of the pandemic and is yet to recuperate. The expectation of operators is that Government will continue to provide stimulus packages that will aid the recovery of the sector and avert the shutdown of factories nationwide with multiplier effect on the employment of about 5 million workers, it stressed.  MAN DG said we expect that NERC as the regulator will ensure improved electricity generation, transmission and distribution that will lead to adequate and reliable electricity supply in the country rather than squeezing the mere 4000MW to meet all revenue needs of key sharing stakeholders.  “We equally expect NERC to make regulations that will ensure that 80% of consumers are metered to ensure consumption reflective payment; aid inflow of investment in the energy industry in order to increase generation capacities and usher in large scale production of electricity. The recent absurd increase does not support these desirable propositions, it added.   The Association in consideration of the above, we opine as follows: The recent increase in electricity tariff is not manufacturing friendly and ill-timed because it will exacerbate the already high manufacturing cost environment, worsen competitiveness, further depress productivity in the sector and May exclude Nigeria from the list of beneficiaries of AfCFTA.  The recent increase, which is following a major review three months ago, is not in the best interest of the Nigerian economy, judging from the prevailing economic ambience of the nation and its impact on vital manufacturing, economic, social and development indicators.  The use of inflation, foreign exchange and gas price as justifications for the increase in tariff is weak and debatable. Gas is produced locally to curb flaring and there is no transparent framework in place to ensure that electricity consumers enjoy reduction in tariff when these indices decline.  Government should, as a matter of urgency and national interest, suspend the recent increase in electricity tariff until the economy improves or certain mutually agreed economic attainment thresholds are met.  NERC is implored to fully perform its role as an unbiased umpire and always convene stakeholders’ meeting for extensive consultations before decisions with far-reaching implications on the private sector are taken.  Government being a major stakeholder in the electricity industry should concentrate on developing processes and polices to attract significant investment to encourage scale generation with improved transmission and distribution infrastructure in the industry.  There is an urgent need to evolve a more realistic tariff structure that will support the growth of the energy sector and the productive sector simultaneously.   The Captioned Photo:  The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Director General, Segun Ajayi-Kadir