The Executive Secretary/CEO of the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), Teju Abisoye is one the three Nigerians selected for the second cohort of accomplished African women in the pan-African Amujae Initiative, the flagship programme of the former President of Liberia, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf Presidential Centre for Women and Development (EJS Centre).The Executive Secretary/CEO of the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), Teju Abisoye The initiative launched in 2020 by the first-ever elected female head of state in Africa, Johnson Sirleaf seeks to inspire and prepare women to unapologetically take up roles and excel in the highest echelons of public leadership and thus, set precedence worthy of emulation by others. Leaders in the Amujae Initiative are inspiring women actively involved in building and extending a legacy for others to yearn for greater heights, radically impact their world and steer a change across different facets of human endeavours including women and youth empowerment.  Teju Abisoye, as a Development Expert, Lawyer and Youth Advocate joins fourteen (14) other women leaders across 11 countries in the African continent to build upon the laudable foundation as laid by the inaugural cohorts. Previously inaugurated leaders include Jumoke Oduwole, Hadiza Bala Usman, Dr. Zanetor Agyeman-Rawlings, Angela Nwaka, Yvonne Aki-Sawyerr, Kula Fofana, among others. The second cohorts of the leaders are:  Speaking at the inauguration of the 2021 leaders, Madam Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said “We are delighted to welcome the 2021 cohort of Amujae Leaders. They have already achieved tremendous success over the course of their careers, and they have the drive and the talent to reach even greater heights. They join the initiative at a moment when women’s leadership is more important than ever before, as countries across our continent grapple with building back stronger after COVID-19.”  Commenting on her announcement, Teju Abisoye said “I am humbled and delighted to be among these women of high strata, influence and impact in the public sector, who have been selected for this pan-African leadership initiative.  “This initiative is exemplary for inspiring African women to reach more remarkable milestones and serves as a platform to engage and impact the lives of daring and passionate women in Africa and across the world.  “I am poised and committed to help actualise the dreams of Her Excellency Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and other Proponents of this initiative, to achieve their desired outcome for the African girl child.” She added.  The Ellen Johnson Sirleaf Presidential Center for Women and Development (EJS Center) was founded in 2018 to be a catalyst for political and social change across Africa by helping unleash its most abundant latent power — its women.  About Teju Abisoye  Tejumola Abisoye is a lawyer with experience in development finance, project management, and monitoring and evaluation. She is currently the CEO and Executive Secretary of Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF).  At LSTEF, Mrs. Abisoye coordinates the design and implementation of programmes that seek to upskill the youth and support entrepreneurs to create wealth and employment to address the high unemployment rate in Lagos State. Through her role, she has supported over 15,000 MSMEs to create and sustain over 100,000 jobs, and the training of over 5,000 youths.  Prior to LSETF, Mrs. Abisoye worked to coordinate human resources and humanitarian interventions to improve the livelihoods of communities in Lagos State through her role at not-for-profit Guiding Light Assembly. Between 2012 and 2015, Mrs. Abisoye also was Programmes Director at Youth Enterprise with Innovation in Nigeria (YouWiN!), an initiative focused on promoting innovation and entrepreneurship among youth.  Mrs. Abisoye earned an LLM, International Trade and Investment Law from the University of Pretoria and an LLB, Law from the University of Ibadan, where she graduated best in the Department of Private Business Law. She is an alumnus of Yale University’s Women’s Leadership Program.  About the Ellen Johnson Sirleaf Presidential Center for Women and Development The Ellen Johnson Sirleaf Presidential Center for Women and Development (EJS Center) was founded in 2018 to be a catalyst for political and social change across Africa by helping unleash its most abundant latent power — its women.  The EJS Center aims to amplify the voice of women and girls in all spheres of life by increasing the representation of women in public service leadership roles in Africa.  Through a unique blend of programming, advocacy, archival research, and museum exhibitions, the EJS Center seeks to become a premier institution dedicated to advancing and sustaining women’s political and social development on the continent. 