Despite the maritime stakeholders opinions on the Nigerian Ports Authority‘s electronic call-up system for trucks. The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has announced the taken off the operation of electronic call-up system for trucks.The statement which was issued and endorsed by the Assistant General Manager Corporate &Strategic Communications, Mr Ibrahim Nasir saying “all trucks doing business at the ports will be required to park at the approved truck parks until they are called up into the port through the Eto app. Mr Nasir pointed out that the Eto application will be responsible for the scheduling, entry and exit of all trucks into the ports with effect from 27th February 2021. READ ALSO THIS: NPA Unveils Electronic Truck Call-Up System in Maritime Operations In the statement NPA said this is part of efforts aimed at finding a permanent solution to the problem of truck congestion around Apapa and its environs, the Authority is pleased to announce the commencement of Eto, the Electronic Truck call-up system designed for the management of truck movement and access to and from the Lagos Port Complex and the Tin Can Island Port, Apapa, Lagos. The Authority however warned that, non-compliance to the use of Eto and its guidelines will result in denial of access into the Ports, impounding of trucks and withdrawal of registration/operating license. “Therefore, all transporters, trucks owners and truck drivers will be required to download the Eto App from Google play store or sign up at http://eto.ttp.com.ng before the commencement date to enable them register accordingly. READ ALSO THIS: Freight forwarders raise alert over operational capability of private firms to manage ‘Electronic Call-Up System’ effectively “In addition to this, cargo owners should please note that empty containers can only be returned to the ports through the approved holding bays of shipping companies using the Eto Platform. It is the responsibility of the shipping company to move empty containers from their holding bay to the Port.  All cargo owners have to do is drop their empty containers at the holding bay of the shipping company.  The shipping company will then make the necessary bookings on the Eto platform to return empty containers to the Port”.  The NPA therefore solicited for the cooperation of transporters, truck drivers, cargo owners, clearing agents shipping companies and all port users in the implementation of the project, which will bring order and sanity to the ports access roads. The project that major stakeholders called on NPA saying that those coming to sparehead the project are “ignorant” of Nigerian ports operations system and also authority are yet to carry out mass sensitisation of port users; the freight forwarders, the truck owners and drivers on the workability of the call-up system   The Captioned Photo: The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Managing Director, Hadiza Bala Usman  