…President IGU, CEO NLNG, others confirm attendance. The Nigerian Gas Association (NGA) is announcing its Industry Multilogues 2, the 12th biennial International Conference themed “POWERING FORWARD: ENABLING NIGERIA’S INDUSTRIALISATION VIA GAS” slated to hold on Thursday, February 25 and Friday, February 26, 2021, to further discuss pertinent issues towards the actualization of a Gas-powered economy. The Multilogues 2 is a sequel to Multilogues 1, a first of its kind series of Industry Multilogues which held in December 2020. The second leg which is a 2-day power-packed series will feature industry CEOs, national, continental, and international participation.  The virtual discourse will feature conversations across existing sectorial topics such as, sustainable funding, and policies improvement that currently impact on the possibilities of attaining optimal Gas production, transportation, distribution, and adoption, whilst charting the way forward, towards economic stability and buoyancy via Gas.  The conference will also feature the inauguration of newly elected executives and award presentation to outstanding individuals and corporates for their significant contributions to the NGA.  Speaking during the announcement of the Industry Multilogues 2, Audrey Joe-Ezigbo, President, Nigerian Gas Association (NGA) stated that the conference’s objective is to project and leverage the potentials of Gas towards enabling and reinvigorating Nigeria’s industrial sector.  “Riding on the declaration by the Honourable Minister of state, Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, to dedicate the new decade to the promotion and adoption of Natural Gas as the fuel of choice for national growth, it has become imperative for the Association to reinforce this paradigm, leveraging its benefits across diverse key sectors in Nigeria and across Africa.”  “Given the intrinsic value and overarching importance of Gas towards economy recovery, prosperity and stability; the 12th Biennial Conference; Multilogues II, aims to identify the sector potentials and opportunities for local and international stakeholders, provide a holistic industry outlook from leaders across leading sectors of the economy and proffer sustainable and actionable solutions towards actualising a Gas-powered economy.  “This year’s theme and sub-themes were meticulously selected to initiate robust conversations addressing both general and sector-specific issues including exploring funding opportunities; promoting innovation; unlocking new frontiers and sustaining policy involvement and formulations towards projecting the Gas sector as one capable of powering the Nigeria economy forward” she added.  Dignitaries and Speakers expected to attend this major Industry event include Nigeria’s Presidency, the President of the International Gas Union, International Industry Leaders, the Honourable Minister of State for Petroleum, Africa’s Energy Ministers, Industry Delegations, CEOs of Major International Oil & Gas Companies and Regulatory Authorities.  Also expected to participate are: Industry Professionals and Technocrats, State Governors, Leaders of the Senate and House of Representatives’ Committees on Gas, Key Players in the Financial Sector, other Policy makers, Members of the Diplomatic Corps, Decision-makers from affiliate industries and sectors, Consultants across Africa and others.  Confirmed speakers for the conference include the President of the International Gas Union (IGU), Joe Kang; Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote; Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman; Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Nigeria LNG Limited, Tony Attah; Chief Executive Officer, Total E&P Nigeria Limited and Chairman, Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) Mike Sangster; Chief Executive Officer, Seplat Petroleum Development Company, Roger Thompson Brown; Osagie Okunbor, Managing Director the Shell Development Company among others.  Sponsors of this year’s conference include: The Nigerian LNG Limited (NLNG) and Seplat as Host Sponsors; Shell Nigeria as Gold Sponsors with Axxela Limited and Falcon Corporation Limited as Silver Sponsors.  Scheduled to hold virtually, NGA Multilogues 2, will provide a veritable platform for African leaders and industry stakeholders to convene and proffer practicable solutions to challenges and obstacles presently militating against optimizing the vast Gas reserves across Nigeria and the African region for economic development.  The Captioned Photo: The President, Nigerian Gas Association (NGA). Mrs. Audrey-Joe Ezigbo,