Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc has announced the appointment of key executive members across the group, in a bid to fortify its market leadership position in the Nigerian financial services sector. The appointments, effective February 2, 2021, are in line with the organisation’s corporate governance structure and succession plan, following receipt of all required regulatory approvals, according to a statement issued by the company on Thursday. It said the new appointments cut across Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc and its subsidiary, Stanbic IBTC Nominees; Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers; Stanbic IBTC Asset Management; Stanbic IBTC Insurance Brokers; and the newly floated Stanbic IBTC Insurance. Eric Fajemisin was assigned the role of Executive Director, Corporate and Transactional Banking, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc. He was the Chief Executive of Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers before this appointment. Babatunde Majiyagbe was also appointed the Chief Executive of Stanbic IBTC Nominees, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc. The wealth management division of the group also made key appointments. Olumide Oyetan is now the new Chief Executive of Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers, according to the statement. “Olumide has over 20 years’ experience and has functioned in different roles across the group and Standard Bank,” it said. The statement said Dare Otitoju would function as Executive Director, Investment Management, Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers. The group’s asset management subsidiary also appointed Busola Jejelowo and Wunmi Ehis-Uzenabor as Executive Director, Investments, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management and Executive Director, Operations at Stanbic IBTC Asset Management respectively. Emi Agaba-Oloja was appointed Executive Director, Stanbic IBTC Trustees while Ibiyemi Mezu was named Executive Director, Stanbic IBTC Insurance Brokers. Akinjide Orimolade, Sakeenat Bakare, Dunny Semwayo were appointed Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Insurance; Executive Director, Business Development, Stanbic IBTC Insurance; and Executive Director, Technical, at Stanbic IBTC Insurance respectively. The Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings, Dr Demola Sogunle, said, “We are delighted to have a pool of highly experienced, diligent and management-savvy individuals at Stanbic IBTC to be entrusted with the responsibilities of driving the next phase of our growth. “We are certain the group will benefit immensely from their wealth of knowledge and expertise because they understand our processes, values, priorities and growth trajectory, having been intricate parts of the system.”