 The Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, was conspicuously absent at a meeting convened by the Governor Abubakar Bello-led All Progressives Congress Membership Registration/Revalidation Committee to resolve the crisis in the Delta State chapter of the party. Those who attended the meeting held at the APC National Secretariat, Abuja, on Thursday, include: Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, a former APC governorship candidate, Great Ogboru and Olorogun O’Tega Omerhor. Speaking to newsmen moments after the meeting, Abubakar, who described the meeting as wonderful said, “It is not unusual in a political process to have differences in opinions and what have you. So, Delta State is a very important state for us in the South-South and we have been able to agree on a workable method to move the party forward. “I hope that going forward, we won’t have to come here from Delta State, they should be able to resolve their issues back home. I believe APC in Delta State is now intact and I also believe APC in Delta State will grow bigger.” The chairman also expressed delight that the exercise was going on smoothly in most states of the federation. Bello said, “Overall, the registration is going on well. I was in Ogun, I have been receiving reports from other zones and the major complaint is that the number of materials which is about 100 per unit is too small. “But I have made complaints to the National Headquarters and more materials will be provided for those local governments or units that need more materials. So, basically, nobody will be left behind.” He equally announced that the exercise will be held for an initial two weeks after which additional time will be given for the exercise to continue. Keyamo, while responding to a question on a letter he wrote complaining about certain infractions, said, “That is why we are here; it was that letter that ignited this meeting and all we fight for is equity for all, not advantage to even me at all. “All we are fighting for is equity, justice for all, not advantage to anybody, not even me as minister and that is why we came here in the first place. It was my complaint that ignited this process and then we are all brothers, we are all united.” Earlier, the Delta State APC Publicity Secretary, Sylvester Imonina, announced the suspension of the exercise as a result of the crisis. He said, “The National Caretaker Committee of the party has deemed it necessary to suspend all registration and revalidation exercise in the state, citing seeming disagreement amongst leaders of the party in the state.” We’re in court over 39 new wards – A’Ibom APC chair The Chairman of the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the APC, Dr Ita Udosen, announced that the exercise would not hold in the 39 newly created wards until the determination of a suit challenging their legality was decided by the Supreme Court. The APC filed a suit challenging the decision of the Akwa Ibom State Independent Electoral Commission to create the wards in 2020. Udosen, who spoke to newsmen in Uyo, on Thursday, said, “We are challenging the creation of those wards in the Supreme Court. That is why we didn’t form our party structure in those wards. We are waiting for the Supreme Court verdict on the matter. We only use the 329 wards created by INEC in the state.” No factions in Enugu, says Nnamani A former President of the Senate, Ken Nnamani, on Thursday said there were no factions of the APC in Enugu State. He equally appealed to his kinsmen in the South-East zone to take advantage of the exercise to join the party. The former lawmaker who is now a member of the Caretaker/ Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the party said this after revalidating his membership in his Amechi Ward. Nnamani said, “I, therefore, call on every person that is 18 years and above to try and find time to register to join the national movement. It is national because APC is poised for the growth of the country. It is possible that our people participate in nation-building. Let our people be in the mainstream of things in Nigeria and that is APC.” Earlier, the chairman of the caretaker committee of the APC in the state, Dr Ben Nwoye, had in his remarks said with the ongoing registration / revalidation exercise, the APC was preparing the ground to take over the five states in the zone by the next general election. Oyo chieftain urges party leaders to step up mobilisation An Oyo State chieftain of the party, Chief Adegboyega Adegoke, has appealed to party leaders to step up mobilisation for the exercise. He explained that the ongoing exercise would ensure that the party has an accurate and reliable database which will assist the party to plan properly ahead of the 2023 general elections. Adegoke said this after revalidating his membership at his ward in Oke-Ado in Ibadan, on Thursday.