The Managing Director, Hope PSBank, a subsidiary of Unified Payment Services Limited and Nigeria’s premier digital-first bank has commended the Federal Government through the Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy for expanding and extending the registration footprints to the bank.L-R: Group Head, Corporate Services, Hope PSBank, Cletus Igah; Managing Director, Hope PSBank,  Ayotunde Kuponiyi; Chief Marketing Officer, Hope PSBank, Kathleen Erhimu and, Group Head, Corporate Communications, Unified Payment Services Limited, Felix Edionwe during the press conference to kick start the free registration exercise for National Identification Number (NIN) by Hope PSBank in Lagos today.Speaking at the press conference to announce the NIN enrollment exercise on Thursday, February 11, 2021, in Lagos, the Managing Director, Hope PSBank, Mr Ayotunde Kuponiyi assured Nigerians of the bank’s readiness to make the registration easier through the platform. Nigerians can register for NIN enrollment by filling the NIN form on Hope PSbank website (www.hopepsbank.com) or Mobile app, and then go to any of our centers for data capture by presenting just their phone numbers and means of identification. This will significantly reduce the waiting period at the capture centers.  He disclosed that the digital bank has commenced free National Identification Number (NIN) for Nigerians including its esteemed customers in all designated enrolment centres located in its regional offices across the country and head office in Lagos.  Kuponiyi stated that the bank was delighted to partner with Federal Government through National Identity Management Commission on the NIN registration exercise noting that this would afford Nigerians the opportunity to register and capture their biometrics seamlessly and quickly.  “We are committed to working with the Federal Government to ensure that every citizen enrolls for NIN as this would mean an easier identification process that had been lacking” Kuponiyi said.  He explained that Nigerians can register online through the bank’s platform and thereafter visit the nearest enrollment center to capture biometrics.He further stated that the bank has intensified effort to rapidly expand the number of enrollment centers as it is currently recruiting thousands of Agents that will set up centers for enrolment all across the country.  “The process of on boarding as Agent is very simple, prospective Agents can log onto our website (www.hopepsbank.com) and enroll first as an Agent of Hope Payment Service Bank and then register to become agent for NIN registration,” he added.  Hope PSBank has 6 regional offices across the geopolitical zones of the country located in Kano, Adamawa, Anambra, Oyo, FCT, Lagos and Rivers State. Its head Office is also located in Victoria Island, Lagos  According to Kuponiyi, once the registration is completed, the customer will receive a message which says “thank you for starting your registration, please visit our nearest center or outlet for your data capturing”. He revealed further that the customer can view the authorized enrollment centers for biometric capture as contained in the message sent to him or her.  “We understand how important this exercise is to Nigerians and we are ready to play our part by ensuring that Nigerians get their NIN through our platform which can be accessed in various designated enrolment centres, “We are quite excited to be the only Payment Service Bank currently undertaking the NIN registration exercise,” he noted.  The Managing Director of the digital bank further described the initiative of the bank for NIN registration exercise as a further testament to the quality of services and technological infrastructure available to customers.  Also speaking on the project, the Chief Marketing Officer, Mrs. Kathleen Erhimu disclosed that all necessary arrangements and facilities have been put in place to make the exercise seamless, stressing that adequate personnel have been deployed to all the enrolment centres to make the process much faster than currently experienced.COVID-19 protocols are also duly observed.  “We advise Nigerians most particularly our esteemed customers to visit all the enrolment centres with necessary requirements for their registration. We have deployed enough personnel to assist in the registration exercise, With Hope PSbank, you can be guaranteed that the process would be seamless and faster” she added.  She, therefore, enjoined Nigerians to visit designated centres located at; 52, Galadima Road, Water Board HQ, Jimeta, Yola; No 5, Awka Road, Onitsha; No 4, Civic Centre Road, Opposite Total Filling Station, Railway Station, Kano; Commerce House, No 1, Idowu Taylor Street, Victoria Island, Lagos; 108, Fajuyi Road, Asabi House, Opposite Adamasingba Stadium, Ibadan; Worlu Hall, Worlu Street, Off Olu Obasanjo, D Line, Port-Harcourt; Jinifa Plaza, Plot 1014, Samuel Ademulegun Avenue, Central Business District, Abuja; for registration.  According to her, each regional office will be responsible for the management, coordination and supervision of enrolment centres located under it.