The Next Titan, Nigeria’s foremost entrepreneurial reality TV show’s crew led by its Executive Producer, Mide Kunle-Akinlaja and Joshua Idiong, Season 7 winner visited SIFAX Group’s head office today to appreciate the company’s support towards the success of the show and officially introduce the winner to SIFAX Group’s management team. L-R: Kelly Imade, Group Head Administration, SIFAX Group; Abayomi Obadare, Group Head, Internal Control, SIFAX Group; Joshua Idiong, Winner, Season 7, The Next Titan; Barrister Ezekiel Ajewole, Executive Director/Senior Special Assistant to the GEVC, SIFAX Group and Mide Kunle-Akinlaja, Executive Producer, The Next Titan, at The Next Titan appreciation visit to SIFAX Group head office held today at Apapa.  At the visit, they were received by Barrister Ezekiel Ajewole, Executive Director/Senior Special Assistant to the GEVC of SIFAX Group and other management team members.  Akinlaja thanked SIFAX Group for the support towards the last edition despite the harsh business environment occasioned by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are here today to say thank you for your support. SIFAX Group has been the only brand that has supported The Next Titan show right from the first season and despite the outbreak of the coronavirus last year, the company still supported us. The impact of the show on young Nigerians is far-reaching”, he said.  On his part, Joshua Idiong, Season 7 winner, of The Next Titan hailed the support given by SIFAX Group in actualizing his business dreams. He said: “As a young entrepreneur, the support I got from SIFAX Group and other brands has really taken by business to the next level. Before winning the show, I was working with about 75 farmers in my oil processing plant. Right now, we are scaling our support to about 250 farmers and also introducing our palm oil product to the Lagos market and other parts of the country. We are also planning on exporting the product to other international markets too and have started building our own processing plant with the support gotten the show”.  L-R: Abayomi Obadare, Group Head, Internal Control, SIFAX Group; Joshua Idiong, Winner, Season 7, The Next Titan; Barrister Ezekiel Ajewole, Executive Director/Senior Special Assistant to the GEVC, SIFAX Group and Mide Kunle-Akinlaja, Executive Producer, The Next Titan, at The Next Titan appreciation visit to SIFAX Group head office held today at Apapa. In his response, Ajewole, assured the Next Titan Crew that SIFAX Group would continue to throw its weight behind the entrepreneurial reality TV show always. “Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, the Group Executive Vice Chairman of SIFAX Group is a man interested in the growth and development of youths in Nigeria. I assure you that we will continue to support the show. I also want to urge the winner to make good use of the prize money in order to make us all proud”, he explained.  