The Director General said the flagging off of the Rail line traversing Kano, Katsina in northern Nigeria up to Maradi in Niger Republic by President Bhuari is a welcome development and strategic move to boost economic activities along the entire rail line in this corridor and up to Maradi, Niger Republic. Ambassodor Ayoola Olukanni, DG of the Nigerian Association Of Chamber Of Commerce Industry Mines And Agriculture (NACCIMA) stated this in press statement endorsed and sent to the AmehNews saying This is considering the importance of such standard rail infrastructure to boost trade and economic ties with our neighbors and improve standard of living of millions of people in the respective States the line will pass through and our neighbouring country Niger Republic. We also see this new rail link a peoples oriented project for inclusive and sustainable economic growth and development;   in line with the vision of ECOWAS to upscale transport infrastructure in the ECOWAS Subregion, he added. READ ALSO THIS: NACCIMA commends the kano – Katsina – Maradi Rail line construction Olukanni stated that it is worthy of note that this rail project will enhance faster and free movement of people as envisioned under ECOWAS.  According to him it will also help to expand trade and Economic activities between people on this rail corridor, and others from various Geoeconomic zones in the country including the Northern Geo economic zone and Niger Republic.  “As a land locked country the people and economic operators in Niger Republic, will be delighted with this development because on completion this standard gauge rail system will significantly improve transportation logistics and expand the volume of goods and industrial raw materials, which are currently conveyed as in-transit goods by trucks from Nigerian ports all the way to Niger Republic with attendants problems.  In his words: “An efficient Rail system will certainly be of greater advantage and much better. Similarly in context of the Afcfta this railway line is an appropriate transport infrastructure which the Afcta Agreement also underscored as part of the needed infrastructure to fasciculate movement of goods for the successful implementation of the Agreement, he noted.  “As an extension of the rail sector in the Western Axis, the Kano Maradi line it’s indeed a visionary move that will boost logistics supplies all the way from the coastal ports in Nigeria to the various states it will pass through and up to Niger Republic.  Olukanni continue, And as the network of this standard gauge Railway across the country gathers speed we appeal for improved innovative private sector participation in the development and operations of the various rail sectors across the country. 