The Nigerian Shipper’s Council (NSC) today in Abuja hosted a sensitization meeting for government agencies and stakeholders in the maritime sector on the implementation of the Nigerian Ports Process Manual (NPPM).  According to the statement sent to the AmehNews and endorsed by RakiyaZubairu, Head Public Relations Unit of Nigerian Shippers’ Council saying This meeting was held at the instance of the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Honorable Chibuike Amaechi who attended in person along with the top echelon of the transportation ministry, to underscore the importance of the NPPM and the need to sanitize Nigeria’s port system. “A major highlight of the meeting was the presentation of the Port Service Support Portal (PSSP) which will be the primary tool to drive the implementation of the NPPM. It may be recalled that the NPPM was launched by the Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo on December 9 2020 in Abuja and he announced the appointment of Nigerian Shippers’ Council as the lead agency to implement the NPPM. The NPPM will enable Nigeria improve its ranking on the Corruption Perception Index, CPI, it was added. In attendance at the launch of NPPM then were the Hon. Minister for Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; the Comptroller General of Immigration, Muhammed Babandede; the Director General Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency Dr. Bashir Yusuf Jamoh; the Executive-Secretary ,Nigeria’s Shippers Council, Hassan Bello; Director General of the Bureau for Public Procurement Mamman Ahmadu; and the representative of Nigeria Ports Authority. Although the Nigeria’s Shippers Council is to drive the process and implementation of the Process Manual, operational agencies at the event also made statements of commitment to its implementation, it was stated  In Today’s attendance were Permanent Sectary Transportation, MD NPA, DG NIMASA, Chairman ICPC, Registrar CRFFN, Chairman, Governing Council of NSC Head TUGAR, President ANCLA, and President NAGAFF. The following were represented: Lagos State Governor, MD NIWA, CG Nigeria Customs Service, and CG Nigerian Immigration Service among others. Below highlights of discussions at the meeting as per their titles: Honorable Minister of Transportation – Rt. RotimiAmaechi In his keynote address he emphasized the enormity of the responsibility placed the Nigerian Shippers’ Council for driving the process and urged government agencies and the generality of the public to cooperate with NSC.  ES/CEO Nigerian Shippers’ Council – Hassan Bello said that the Nigerian Ports Process manual (NPPM) is key to transparency in Nigerian ports. “There is a need to reduce dual time of cargo from 21 days to the regional average of 7 days”, Barrister Bello said. “NSC is not only looking at the ease of doing business but at the cost of doing business”, he continued. He added that the electronic call up system by the Nigerian Ports Authority would aid in easing the current traffic situation around the port. NSC Boss sought for the cooperation of sister agencies to ensure the manual is fully implemented in order to improve the ranking of Nigeria in the Corruption Perception Index (CPI).  Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) – Professor Bolaji Owasanoye noted that “The agencies are not powerless, they have enforcement power it is time to effectively use these enforcement powers”, he said. He pledged the support of his agency to implement the NPPM.  Head Technical Unit on Governance and Anti-Corruption Reforms (TUGAR) – Ms.Lillian Ekeanyanwu on her own side applauded the collaboration of the NSC and other agencies in realizing the NPPM. “We have confidence in the NSC and NPA and we would issue a scorecard on performance”, she added.  While Director General, NIMASA – Dr. Bashir Jamoh spoke on some of the challenges in the sector. Among them is insecurity and corruption. According to him methods of addressing these issues are embedded in the NPPM. “Our industry can only be sustained in terms of economic growth if we have sustainable systems in place to make our ports attractive”, he said.  Also Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo olu, who was represented by the Lagos State Commissioner of Transportation – Dr. Fredrick Oladeyinde said the Lagos state is on top of the Apapa gridlock situation. “We are working with the NPA to make sure truck parks are established along logistics routes.Lagos has given out 31 hectares of land for these truck parksfor instances. We will continue to work with key stakeholders to ensure we develop the best port system in Africa”, Sanwo olu said.  As Maritime stakeholder, CEO Convention on Business Integrity, representing the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network – Olusoji Apampa noted that since an information desk was put up in 2020, 90 vessels doing business via Nigerian waters were monitored and only 16 had issues which were resolved within 1 – 4 hours. He encouraged stakeholders to be patient.  Another maritime stakeholder, Registrar/CEO Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) – Barrister Sam Nwakohu congratulated the ES/CEO NSC for a job well started. He spoke on the importance of collaboration amongst the maritime agencies which freight forwarders rely upon to ease their business. He added that the manual is a good initiative that would improve the nation’s economy.  Managing Director Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) – HadizaBala Usman said that the Key Performance Indicators (KPI) of the various agencies in the maritime sector are closely tied therefore the need for seamless cooperation and integration of relevant agencies. The NPA she promised would ensure compliance to the manual and implement sanctions for non-complaince, she concluded.  Comptroller General, Nigeria Customs Service, General Ahmed Ali rted who was represented by Acting Comptroller, Tariff, NCS – Suleiman Chiroma said that there is a need for the Nigerian Customs Service to deploy sophisticated modern scanners to replace physical examination. Ali added that at the time of physical examination, all relevant agencies should be present and failure to comply would mean exemption.