The crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party in the South-West has taken a turn for the worse as leaders of a former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, have directed their members to steer clear of a peace meeting convened by ex-Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola of Osun State. Fayose’s supporters are also said to have started mobilising support for a former National Vice Chairman (South-West) of the party, Dr Eddy Olafeso, to return. This is contained in a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting of the group, held in Akure, the Ondo State capital on Tuesday. It was gathered that the meeting was presided over by former Governor Fayose. The communiqué was signed by the Zonal Caretaker Secretary, Mr Daisi Akintan, and Chairmen of Osun, Ekiti, Lagos and Ogun State chapters of the party, Mr Sunday Bisi, Chief Bisi Kolawole, Adedeji Doherty and Dr Sikirulahi Ogundele respectively. The group, which directed its members to shun invitation to any meeting called by Oyinlola, said “such a meeting is self-serving and for personal gains.” The communiqué read in part, “We reviewed strategies and considered new party management tactics that will strategically enhance and promote the growth and strength of the PDP in the South-West Zone. “To this end, it was conclusively agreed that the immediate past executive of the zone under the leadership of Dr Eddy Olafeso displayed enough competence and candour during its last tenure and as such further endorsed, to be returned for tenure through the next zonal congress. “All leaders and state chairmen are hereby placed on high alert and enjoined to immediately commence mobilization in their respective States for the next zonal congress. “We are aware of steps being taken to tamper with the delegates’ list for the zonal congress, therefore, we seize this opportunity to seriously warn the national organising secretary not to  in any manner whatsoever compromise in the discharge of his responsibilities as such a development will certainly portend great danger for the party in the zone. “The National Working Committee is equally enjoined to be interested in all actions designed for execution as we progress to the zonal congress.”