Members of the National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO) ware reminded to do something that you may call it your organisation’s corporate social drive. L-r: Chairman, National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO), Chuks Udo Okonta; Head of Marketing, African Alliance Insurance Plc, Emmanuel Eburajola; Vice Chairman, NAIPCO, Ngozi Onyeakusi, and Head, Brand, Media & Communications, African Alliance Insurance, Bankole Banjo, during the 2021 annual general meeting of NAIPCO at Welcome Centre, Airport Road, Lagos on Thursday. Mrs Joyce Ojemudia, MD/CEO, African Alliance Insurance PLC in her speech delivered at the NAIPCO’s Annual General Meetings (AGM) on Thursday, July8, 2021 said when will NAIPCO, for example, ideate, fund and run a wholly consumer focused media drive? Call it your organisation’s corporate social drive, but it is time NAIPCO was found active in this space, she added.  Mr Ojemudia further noted that the National Insurance Association (NIA) has spent a lot of money on Insurance education, same with National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), we await NAIPCO’s bit and that when will we see you work with, say University Insurance Students Association, to help spread the gospel of insurance? We indeed can do better.? L-r: Chairman, National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO), Chuks Udo Okonta; Head of Marketing, African Alliance Insurance Plc, Emmanuel Eburajola, and Head, Brand, Media & Communications, African Alliance Insurance, Bankole Banjo, during the 2021 annual general meeting of NAIPCO at Welcome Centre, Airport Road, Lagos on Thursday.  She disclosed that she is at the event on dual capacity as the MD/CEO of Nigeria’s oldest indigenous owned life insurer, African Alliance Insurance as well as the President of the prosperous Professional Insurance Ladies Association (PILA).  The managing director of African Alliance Insurance opened up by saying “customer-focused collaboration has to get better. And when I talk about collaborations, I do not mean with the usual suspects. Yes, you collaborate with NAICOM, the NIA both directly and indirectly through the Corporate Affairs Committee of the Nigeria Insurers Association (CAMCONIA), and then directly with Insurance companies but where are the people our customers in all of these? Is it just about us working together and isolating the consuming public?, she queries. L-r: Financial Secretary, National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO), Mathew Otoijagha; Assistant General Secretary, NAIPCO, Rosemary Onuoha; Vice Chairman, NAIPCO, Ngozi Onyeakusi; Chairman, NAIPCO, Chuks Udo Okonta; Head of Marketing, African Alliance Insurance Plc, Emmanuel Eburajola, and Head, Brand, Media & Communications, African Alliance Insurance, Bankole Banjo, during the 2021 annual general meeting of NAIPCO at Welcome Centre, Airport Road, Lagos on Thursday. Members of the National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents should help spread the gospel of insurance on their own, she added.  Ojemudia took another angle on NAIPCO saying “I am glad this is taking better roots. This is about digital adoption. Everyone has a website now and gone are the days we would need for Nike or Bankole to publish in Punch or Guardian before our stakeholders know what we do. From the Chairman himself and his Inspenonline, to my sister, Nkechi’s BusinessTodayNG and to SuperNews, to The Revealer and so on, your members have taken the game to the digital space. L-r: Head of Marketing, African Alliance Insurance Plc, Emmanuel Eburajola; Brand, Media & Communications Executive, African Alliance Insurance, Ganiyat Momoh, and Head, Brand, Media & Communications, African Alliance Insurance, Bankole Banjo, during the 2021 annual general meeting of NAIPCO at Welcome Centre, Airport Road, Lagos on Thursday. According to her how optimised are all these sites? How navigation friendly are they? How is the look and feel? Can we honestly say we have the very best we can? Beyond those, why aren’t we embracing a viable email marketing tool to drive traffic to these sites and encourage virability? How many of us have active and vibrant social media presence? I rarely see any thought leadership from this association both as a body and as members anywhere. My people, we can do better, added she.  She concluded that NAIPCO should have thoughts on the words and make proper adjustments as time goes on.  