Through the West Africa Agriculture Resilience Program,10,000 smallholders will increase crop yields and their incomes Smallholder farmers in Nigeria’s Kano State at a tomato nursery demonstration offered through a past PYXERA Global-led project. Through its new West Africa Agriculture Resilience Program, PYXERA Global will now build the capacities of rice, maize, and soybean farmers through ongoing training.  The USAID-funded West Africa Trade & Investment Hub has awarded a $500,000 co-investment grant to
PYXERA Global, a not-for-profit with extensive experience designing training and capacity-building
programs, to support the launch of its West Africa Agriculture Resilience Program (WAFARP). This program
will assist 10,000 farmers cultivating rice, maize, and soybean within Nigeria’s Kebbi, Cross River, and
Benue States. These states are focal areas for the Trade Hub in Nigeria, whose work aligns with and
supports the mission of the U.S. Government’s Feed the Future initiative. The smallholder farmers PYXERA Global is assisting have faced numerous challenges because of the
COVID-19 pandemic, including income loss from not producing crops as planned. Their challenges have
resulted in disrupted market channels and food supply chains. Through leveraging the existing
agribusiness systems of Dantata Foods and Allied Products Company Limited (Dantata Foods)—one of
Nigeria’s leading food processing and agribusiness firm—PYXERA Global will provide an avenue for
smallholders in its program to increase crop yield and boost their incomes. “Under the West Africa Agriculture Resilience Program model, we have designed a program that is based
on strengthening systems for three agricultural value chains—rice, soybeans and maize,” says Ann Oden,
the program’s team lead. “This initiative leverages private sector resources to deliver a strategic program,
with the goal of bringing economic prosperity to smallholder farmers while ensuring sustained food
security.” This goal will be achieved by first bringing all the smallholders into Dantata Foods’ outgrower program, as
the company will both assist the smallholders to increase crops yields and buy from them as well. To ensure quality output for the crops it buys, the company will supply the smallholders with quality seeds and other farm inputs. Supported by PYXERA Global, Dantata Foods will also provide training programs to help the smallholders produce higher-quality crops that command better prices. The crops produced through the program will be taken to Dantata Foods’ aggregation centers already located in the three target states of Kebbi, Cross River, and Benue, where the smallholders will be paid by the company at prevailing market rates. To assist Dantata Foods and the smallholders it is supporting within and outside the program, PYXERA Global will further fund upgrades to the aggregation centers to allow for state-of the art cleaning and sorting equipment. “It is our greatest aim to support and improve the livelihood of everyone in the society, especially the
underrepresented women and youth in the agricultural sector,” said Alhaji Tajuddeen Dantata, Chairman
of Dantata Foods. Through the program, the smallholders—which will include 50 percent women or youth—are anticipated
to produce 25,000 metric tons of each of the value chains in the first season and an additional 5,000 metric
tons in the subsequent seasons. The total net income is projected to be $6.72 million and $9.8 million for
each respective season. “Nigeria’s agricultural sector has been particularly hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, negatively impacting
smallholder farmers and the communities of people who depend on their success in growing crops,” said
Michael Clements, Trade Hub’s Chief of Party. “We are excited about the potential of PYXERA Global’s West
Africa Agriculture Resilience Program to bolster agricultural systems and expect to co-invest in other such
programs as part of our COVID-19 rapid response initiative.”