This important event where Accident Investigation Bureau, Nigeria (AIB-N) is releasing eight aircraft accident reports to the public. This is the biggest haul since the establishment of AIB-N. Engr. Akin Olateru, Commissioner/CE, Accident Investigation Bureau, Nigeria during his Speech for the Releasing Eight Accident Reports Held at AIB Corporate Headquaters, Abuja On Thursday July 8, 2021   Engr. Olateru said this is in furtherance of discharging our mandate of investigating aircraft accidents and incidents with a view to enhancing air safety. The Bureau, despite the paralyzing effects of COVID-19 has remained committed to its mandate and worked all through the pandemic to clear outstanding reports, he added.    The report released disclosed that after 11 years of Chachangi airline crashed in Kaduna killing 45 persons onboard, the Accident Investigation Bureau – Nigeria (AIB-N), has revealed the cause of the crashes.  The Bureau, also released reports of additional seven aircraft serious incidents and an accident, including Turkish airlines owned aircraft and issued nine safety recommendations.  The Bureau yesterday identified unserviceable runway lighting as factor responsible for one of the crashes that happened in the country.  AIB Boss stated that eight aircraft, two of which are foreign registered aircraft from Turkey and the United States all occurring between 2010 and 2019 and issuing of nine safety recommendations to avert future occurrence.  Engr Olateru said safety recommendations are addressed to the regulatory body NCAA, the affected airlines and the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) among others.  According to him, one of the causal factors of the incidents was as a result of unserviceable runway light at Runway 21, recommending that Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) should ensure serviceability of DNPO runway lighting systems during all operations.  Another safety recommendation was to Turkish Airlines Inc. that the airline should ensure flight crew adherence to provisions of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), as contained in the Turkish Airlines Flight Crew Techniques Manual vis-à-vis landing techniques.  Recall that of the incidents released, three occurred at the Port Harcourt International Airport, while one each occurred in Kotoka International Airport, Ghana, Kaduna and Benin Airports, the rest happened in Lagos.  The released reports are serious Incident involving an Air Peace B737-500 aircraft with registration marks 5N-BRN, which occurred in Port Harcourt Airport on 22nd June, 2019, serious Incident involving Associated Aviation Limited HS-125-700A aircraft with registration marks 5N-BEX, which occurred at Benin Airport, Edo state, Nigeria on 10th July, 2011.  Others are the report on the serious Incident involving a B737-200 aircraft with nationality and registration marks 5N-BIF owned and operated by Chanchangi Airlines, at Kaduna Airport, Runway 05, Nigeria on 20th of August, 2010, as well as a Bombardier DHC-8-Q400 aircraft owned and operated by Arik Air Nigeria Ltd with registration marks 5N-BKX which occurred en-route Kotoka International Airport, Accra, Ghana on 6th March, 2018.  The AIB stated that the report on Serious Incident involving a Medview Boeing 737- 500 aircraft with registration marks 5N-BQM, en route Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos on 23rd July, 2019 and a Hawker Sidney HS-125-800 XP aircraft owned and operated by SWAT Technology Limited with registration marks N497AG, which occurred on Runway 21, Port-Harcourt Airport, on 11th June, 2015.  The other two reports are on the Serious Incident involving an Airbus 330-343 aircraft operated by Turkish Airlines Inc. with registration marks TC-LOL, which occurred at Port Harcourt Intl. Airport on 31st December 2019 and the  Serious Incident involving Boeing 737- 300 aircraft 5N-BUK operated by Air Peace Limited which occurred at Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos on 15th May, 2019.  Safety Recommendation 2021-028 is that Arik Air Nigeria Ltd should ensure that flight crew execute appropriate checklist items completely in line with the aircraft Flight Crew Operating Manual (FCOM) and Quick Reference Handbook (QRH). 2. Safety Recommendation 2021-029 directed at NCAA to should ensure that flight crew type-rated on Bombardier DHC-8-Q400 should undergo further training on “The effects of smoke in an enclosed area and actual use of relevant equipment in a simulated smoke environment”.  The Commissioner reiterated that the details of all the reports, which include the factual information, findings, analysis, conclusions and safety recommendations on the investigations are on our website. He appreciates the Hon. Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika for his unrelenting support for the Bureau without which it would have been almost impossible to attain all monumental achievements we have recorded in the last few years.   