L-R: Mr Jude Ogaga Ughwujabo, Special Assistant to the Honourable Minister, Federal Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs; Dr. Stella Maduka, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs; Esther Abu, Marketing Manager wow!lotto; Herbert Ezeamaka, Country Project Manager and Mr. Jude Uwadia, Director, Licensing & Operations, NLRC  First interactive online lottery game platform in Nigeria, wow!lotto has launched with an offering  of a unique combination of the lottery game mechanics with an online casino visualization for Nigerians, providing an opportunity for fun and winnings of up to N300,000,000. A first of its kind in Nigeria, wow!lotto, a lottery game with exceptional bright interactive features for smartphones and PCs, specially designed to immerse players in the atmosphere of the games, making it possible for them to play at any time, make cashless deposits and withdraw winnings directly into their bank account. wow!lotto launched with different interactive games. For people who prefer traditional lottery games, there is “Keno” or “A moment of luck”. For those who are ready to try something new and dive into the exciting world of online lottery there are games with slots visualization such as “Vegas Lights” or “Lion’s Share”. Each game offers huge jackpots and has its own win feature and winning combinations. wow!lotto strives to keep working on new games in different thematics to ensure that players continue getting a rich gaming experience. Marketing Manager, wow!lotto  Nigeria, Esther Abu, who described the lottery game as modern, bold and expressive stated that the game has been designed for Nigerians who are explorative, competitive and desire to win big while they have fun. “wow!lotto is the first of its kind in the country and we will continually demonstrate the brand’s purpose of providing Nigerians an opportunity to get the better life they desire as they play to win big up to N300,000,000 through our exciting lottery games,” she said. “The Nigerian market is currently saturated with sport betting and traditional lottery companies. Following our success in other markets, we saw this as an opportunity to introduce a unique product to Nigeria – the first ever interactive gaming platform specially made for Nigerians,” Herbert Ezeamaka, wow!lotto Country Project Manager stated.  Mr. Lanre Gbajabiamillah, Director-General for the National Lottery Regulatory Commission, NLRC, stated that the lottery and betting industry in Nigeria is experiencing enormous growth. “I am excited that an innovation like wow!lotto has sprung up to empower Nigerians while they have fun.  Nigerian Gaming market has a lot of players and at NLRC, our mission is to ensure that each player is abiding by the rules that guide the sector. For wow!lotto, they have met all the requirements to operate in Nigeria; hence, they have our full backing,” he added. Gbajabianilla who spoke through Mr. Henry Uwadia, Director, Licensing & Operations, NLRC, added that the wow!lotto platform is user friendly and  hoped that players can have fun while winning big. Also speaking at event, was Dr. George Akume, Hon. Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs. Dr. Akume who spoke through Dr. Stella Maduka, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Special Duties and intergovernmental affairs mentioned that what excites her about the wow!lotto brand is that the platform is very bright and interactive which is one feature that will definitely entice the female gender like me as well as lottery and betting lovers. The lottery is available on three platforms: iOS, Android and Web, so users can have a seamless gaming experience on both desktop and mobile devices. Players get to try a demo version of all games before betting with real money. First-rate animations, exciting winning combinations and gorgeously-designed icons are the elements of the game that keep players coming back for more. For making deposits to place bets, players can pay seamlessly using different payment methods such as card, bank transfers, USSD etc; once payment is successful, the player’s wow!lotto account will be credited. Users can also withdraw their winnings straight to their bank account at any time. These opportunities make the process of the game easy and convenient. wow!lottois tightly regulated so payout is guaranteed In the coming months, we plan to launch additional exciting features to reward Nigerians. Some of which include: bonus games where users can win not only cash prizes for their games but also non cash prizes such as phones, smart TV, generators; referral program and Special draws where players will be able to win a sleek  car The interactive reality of wow!lotto is that it is full of instant winnings and genuine impressions! To catch up on all the latest news on wow!lotto, follow @wowlotto on Instagram and @wowlotto_ng on Twitter and on Facebookwww.facebook.com/wowlotto.officialand visit our website www.wowlotto.ng