 DStv and GOtv viewers can look forward to the world’s biggest and most diverse celebration of sport, the Summer Olympic Games, which will run from Friday, 23 July to Sunday, 8 August 2021 in Tokyo, Japan.  DStv will feature eight dedicated channels for the Games with SuperSport Football Plus (DStv channel 202) becoming Olympic Channel 1, while SuperSport Premier League (DStv channel 203), La Liga (DStv channel 204), Football (DStv channel 205), Variety 1 (DStv channel 206), Variety 2 (DStv channel 207), Variety 3 (DStv channel 208) and Variety 4 (DStv channel 209) become Olympic Channels 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 respectively.  GOtv will feature four dedicated channels for the Games, with SuperSport GOtv Football (GOtv channel 31) becoming Olympic Channel 1, while GOtv La Liga (GOtv channel 32), GOtv Select 1 (GOtv channel 33) and GOtv Select 2 (GOtv channel 34) become Olympic Channels 2, 3 and 4 respectively.  This will give viewers on all DStv packages; Premium, Compact Plus, Compact, Confam and Yanga as well as the GOtv Max and Jolli packages the chance to witness action from the Summer Olympic Games in Tokyo, which is set to be the biggest sporting event of 2021.  Olympic themed content will also be available on Catch-Up, while a focus on African athletes which will light up the games has already begun, with documentaries on Kenyan long-distance running star Eliud Kipchoge (who is favourite to defend his Gold Medal in the Men’s Marathon), as well as Zambia’s Copper Queens, who upset the odds to qualify for the Women’s Football competition.  Whether you are hoping to see South Africa’s Akani Simbine challenge for honours in the Men’s 100m, Kenyan Hellen Obiri blitz the field in the Women’s 5000m, Nigeria’s Men’s and Women’s Basketball teams, Ghanaian boxer Sulemanu Tetteh, Egypt’s Mandy Mohamed in the Women’s All-Around Artistic Gymnastics or any other star from our continent and their journey through Tokyo 2020, SuperSport is your home for all the action.  Viewers on DStv and GOtv can see all their favourite Olympic Games stars at Tokyo 2020, with thousands of world class athletes from around the world, including our great continent, set to entertain for over two weeks of incredible action from the Games of the XXXII Olympiad.  Visit www.dstvafrica.com and www.gotvafrica.com to subscribe or upgrade your DStv and GOtv package for the Olympic Games. With the DStv Explora, you can pause, rewind or record the exciting moments of the games. And while you’re on the move, stream the games on the DStv App which is free for download on the Apple and Google Play store and can be used on up to 5 devices.