 It was quite unfortunate that recently, the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) published in a half page advert the expulsion of three insurance Companies, namely, Industrial and General Insurance Co. Limited; Niger Insurance Plc and Standard Alliance Insurance Plc.  According to NIA, the affected companies failed to meet their obligations to policy holders. It was so disheartening that the affected companies were once giants of the industry, contributing immensely to the growth of Nigeria insurance industry.  This issue became subject of discussion on our platforms, not only to x-ray the implication of such advert on the image of the industry but to as well consider the implication on members who have one business or the other with the companies.  As a proactive Council, we like to urge members to always critically examine the viability of any underwriting firm before placing business with them.  This is because, in recent time, there are allegations involving nonpayment of claims as low as one thousand USD since 2019. It distressing that in order to save the face of the industry, some Brokers have had to pay their clients.  Our Investigation Committee is inundated with complains of nonpayment of claims. In order to forestall further experiences, I like to appeal that Brokers do their proper investigations. NCRIB President harps on our statutory responsibilities every year to publish the names of all eligible members of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers in National Dailies. I like to inform you that it is about the time for the Council to carry out this statutory obligation, she added.  She also noted that Leveraging our past experiences, Brokers that failed to meet up with the requirements for the publication, often face lots of challenges in business due to the attendant negative image that non-inclusion attracts. I therefore urge you to regularize your membership status with the Secretariat, pay your subscription to merit the list. Delay may be dangerous!, She said “I must not end my speech without reiterating my expression of thanks to our host-Heirs Insurance and Heir Life. You have demonstrated good spirit of comradeship and partnership with the Council and I have no reservation in announcing your companies as Brokers-Friendly Underwriters that are worth patronizing by our members. May the sun of this great company never grow less!