….. even companies outside our industry are willing to proudly identify with us by sponsoring this Evening  It is worthy to note that the Council’s bi-monthly Members’ Evening, a platform for interaction between Insurance Brokers and leading Underwriters in the market, has metamorphosed to an event that Underwriters now jostle to host.   The President of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB), Dr (Mrs.) Bola Onigbogi in Speech Delivered At The July 2021 Edition Of NCRIB Members’ Evening Held On Tuesday, July 6, 2021 In Lagos  Mrs Onigbogi said may I use this medium to appeal to colleagues, who are still maintaining apathy towards Council’s activities to have a change of heart as we can only survive through constant bonding and exchange of ideas on a continual basis. It is worthy to note that the Council’s bi-monthly Members’ Evening, a platform for interaction between Insurance Brokers and leading Underwriters in the market, has metamorphosed to an event that Underwriters now jostle to host; even companies outside our industry are willing to proudly identify with us by sponsoring this Evening, she added.  “It therefore behooves us to complement the evening with our continuous attendance as this would help its sustenance. I need less to inform you that your attendance at the meeting is part of your MCPD points.  According to her statement the July edition of NCRIB Members’ Evening which is being hosted by the duo of Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life and therefore urge stakeholders, in our collective interest to join the progressive initiatives of this leadership team to build a virile Industry.  Mrs Onigbogi especially welcome the Management team of Heirs Insurance Plc ably led here today by its Acting Managing Director/CEO, Dr. (Mrs.) Adaobi Nwakuche and Heirs Life ably led by its Managing Director/CEO, Mr. Niyi Onifade. I have no iota of doubt in my mind that Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life are companies to watch out in our market, she stressed.   She stated that a critical examination of your workforce and your enthusiasm to host this Members’ Evening at a time like this is a pointer to a greater business exploit you are poised to accomplish.   NCRIB Boss disclosed that the two companies had again etched their names indelibly on the mind of Insurance Brokers who incidentally control the largest chunk of business in the industry.  Also speaking at the event is a former Deputy Commissioner for Insurance, (finance and Administration) and now a highly sought-after resource person, Mr. George Onakhena who went through a short lecture on “Sustainable Financial Fitness in an age of the Unthinkable”  Mr. Onakhena’s address and lecture added value to us as individuals and professionals.  “NCRIB’ statutory responsibilities every year is to publish the names of all eligible members of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers in National Dailies. I like to inform you that it is about the time for the Council to carry out this statutory obligation. Leveraging our past experiences, Brokers that failed to meet up with the requirements for the publication, often face lots of challenges in business due to the attendant negative image that non-inclusion attracts. I therefore urge you to regularize your membership status with the Secretariat, pay your subscription to merit the list. Delay may be dangerous!”  The President concluded with her expression of thanks to our host-Heirs Insurance and Heir Life. According to her, you have demonstrated good spirit of comradeship and partnership with the Council. I have no reservation in announcing your companies as Brokers-Friendly Underwriters that are worth patronizing by our members, she said.