Since MultiChoice Nigeria announced the host and judges for the new season of the Nigerian Idol that marks the return of the fan favorite reality show after a three years break. That is the beginning of highly exciting Nigerian Idol Season 6, that will pave way for the discovery of music talents among young Nigerians as well as the promotion of the entertainment industry in the country.  The Company’s DSTV channel in the well-liked music reality TV show which will commence live performance on May 9 and culminate with a grand finale on July 11, where the winner will have the prize of a recording contract with a leading record label and N50, 000,000 (Fifty Million Naira) worth of prizes.  The MultiChoice company promised it will continue to promote talent discovery in music through the Nigerian Idol, while espousing the company’s interest in the creative platform where abundant talents abound in the country.  The company said as social responsivity organisation our aim is to ensure that talents are nurtured in order to produce stars that would take the music and entertainment industry to enviable heights, like the recent achievement of Burna Boy, who have now become a global star after winning the Grammy.  To effectively demonstrate its intention in attaining abundant talents abound in the country, the MultiChoice Nigeria to further reinforce its commitment of the Nigerian Idol reality TV show and also in advancing its good cause for the entertainment sector.  “The purpose of having the show is to first express our commitment to talent discovery in music through the Nigerian Idol which is our goal and secondly, espouse our interest in creative art and ideapreneurship”. The Company reiterated further that music brings the best out of our culture and Nigeria is littered with abundance of talents-in music, movie, comedy, spoken words, and dance.  “We are putting our weight behind the Nigerian Idol because it will bring the best out of the many talents we have in the country.”  For the best to be discovered, groomed and given the necessary push, there must be a propelling platform which the boss said, the company believes the Nigerian Idol provides.”  “We are putting our weight behind the Nigerian Idol because it will bring the best out of the many talents we have in this country.  With the returning of Idol, MultiChoice Nigerian have a unique opportunity to not only entertain but also unleash fresh talents and help them grow.  The Idol franchise has over the years produced some of the most prominent musicians in Nigeria such as Timi Dakolo, Mercy Chinwo, and Omawumi, who have gone ahead to make a name for themselves in the global music scene 