 The Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, yesterday told President Muhammadu Buhari to step up efforts by his administration to end the sufferings of Nigerians. The emir told the president who paid him a courtesy call in his palace in Kano as part of his itinerary during his official visit to Kano State, that the present economic situation in the country is inflicting untold hardship on Nigerians. As part of his engagement during the state visit, the president was in Zawaciki, Dawakin Kudu Local Government Area of Kano State, to perform the ground-breaking for the 203.8km segment of the Kano-Kaduna rail project.
He also told governors not to abandon projects initiated by their predecessors so as to speed up the development of their states. Bayero, while receiving Buhari, said: “Nigerians are suffering, and something urgently needs to be done.
“The present economic situation in the country is inflicting untold hardship on Nigerians, coupled with the insecurity.” The emir called on the government to do everything possible to control inflation.
He also urged the federal government to find a lasting solution to ease the suffering of the common man, more specifically with the high cost of essential commodities that are clearly above their reach.
He called on Buhari to intensify more efforts in tackling insecurity and the economy.
Bayero said: “We are excited with your visit to the palace. We appreciate your visit to the palace from time to time even during the time of the late emir. “We want to commend the president for the infrastructural development across the country, particularly those sited in Kano just as the governor listed some of such projects despite the shortfalls in the global economy.
“We are calling on the president to look into various sectors of life and find ways of ameliorating the sufferings and hardships faced by the masses, especially in the areas of security, economy, especially food and commodities. “We are hoping the presidential aides would continue to advise the president on the condition and wellbeing of the poor masses, especially in those aspects where he would need to be informed on certain developments for necessary action. This is a responsibility upon us, which we need to discharge accordingly.
“We often pray for divine intervention for our country. To the followers, we urged them to sustain constant prayers for the leaders and pray to God to heal our land from COVID-19 pandemic.” The emir appealed to Nigerians to support and pray for the success of the Buhari administration.
He also assured the president of the emirate’s continued prayers for his administration, and applauded him for finding Kano worthy of citing federal government’s critical infrastructural projects, which has turned the state to an economic hub.
He also expressed delight over the way the federal government is executing people-oriented projects, particularly in Kano State. Earlier, Buhari, who spoke in Hausa, had said: “I am delighted over how Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje is developing Kano State. I am also happy about his continuity policy. I have seen a number of projects of previous administrations which he has completed.
“I urge other state governors to emulate the continuity policy of Governor Ganduje. I am very happy for the warm reception I received in Kano.” Buhari Performs Ground Breaking for 203.8km Kano-Kaduna Rail Line
Meanwhile, Buhari yesterday in Zawaciki, Dawakin Kudu Local Government Area of Kano State, performed the ground-breaking for the 203.8km segment of the Kano-Kaduna rail project.
The segment starts from Rigasa station, Kaduna, and runs to Kano.
The length of the main line is 203.8 kilometres. It connects two important states in the North: Kaduna and Kano. When completed, it will be connected to the already functional Abuja-Kaduna railway line, and it will be possible to travel directly from Kano to Abuja by train. The project adopts China Railway standard, with a designed speed of 150 km/h. It is a single-track standard gauge railway, using diesel traction and automatic blocking system. Speaking at the ceremony, the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Chibuike Amaechi, said the proposed Kano-Kaduna railway project would boost trade and present an opportunity for Nigerians to traverse between Abuja and Kano with ease. Amaechi stated that the project is part of the third and outstanding segment of the Lagos-Kano railway modernisation project.
He added that the first segment, Abuja-Kaduna line, was launched for commercial operation in July 2016 and the second segment, Lagos-Ibadan railway line, was inaugurated for commercial operation on June 10 2021. “Succinctly speaking, having delivered Abuja- Kaduna and Lagos- Ibadan railway project, the remaining stretch of Ibadan-Kano, which traverses Oyo, Osun, Kwara, Niger, Abuja, Kaduna and Kano has been segmented as follows: Kaduna-Kano segment, Ibadan- Minna segment and Minna-Abuja segment.” “This project will link the Federal Capital, Abuja with the commercial city of Kano and also link the ongoing Kano-Maradi project. The outstanding addendum, Ibadan- Abuja, will link the sea ports in Lagos to Maradi, Niger Republic. “This, I believe, will greatly boost trade between the two countries and foster economic development. This railway line will present an opportunity for Nigerians to traverse between Abuja and Kano via Kaduna with relative ease,” he added. According to him, the project will improve the standard of living of citizens within its corridor, create employment, promote trade and eventually the railway help to decongest the Lagos port complex.