by: Jennifer Nieva, Director of Product Innovation URL: https://about.netflix.com/en/news/family-time-upgrade-new-kid-friendly-features   Shows and movies are an important way for kids to connect with the world – helping to teach them about new places, create bonds with family or friends and understand other perspectives.  We know that each family has their own standards, and we’re continually making strides to help parents/caregivers make informed decisions about what their families watch on Netflix. So, to foster greater connection around your kids’ favorite titles — like the recently launched series Ridley Jones or The Mitchells vs. The Machines, we’re launching two new features to help families connect around their favorite series and films or discover their next favorite.  Whether it’s a fantasy film like Wish Dragon or an action-adventure series like Ridley Jones, the Kids Recap Email will give parents insights into their kids’ content preferences, along with unique ways to interact with their child on the basis of their interests as well as additional insights like:  First, bi-weekly kids recap emails to give parents a better understanding of their child’s preferences and news ways to engage those interests, like:   Second, we’re launching Kids Top 10 rows featuring our most popular children’s content in your country.  (This is an example of the Kids Top 10)  We’ve seen how Top 10 rows help our members find something to watch, because families make the best decisions has always been important to us. That’s why we offer a wide variety of safe (and fun!) tools for younger viewers like kids’ profiles, custom ratings and profile locks. Whether it’s reciting your favorite lines with your friends or sharing a laugh during family movie night, seeing what’s popular can help kids and families find something to watch and bring them closer together.  The Kids Top 10 will feature the most popular kids’ titles overall -including shows and movies – across each country with a maturity rating of PG and below (*or local country-level PG rating equivalent). Also, the Kids Top 10 will be updated daily.  Popular Kids movies, series, and specials that make this list will have a red “Top 10” badge wherever they appear in Kids profiles on Netflix – across all devices. Members can find the Top 10 list on their kids  homepage or in the ‘New & Popular’ section within the menu bar.  Connecting kids with their families, friends and stories around the world has never been easier.