Members of the National Assembly, under the aegis of Southern Senators’ Forum, have appealed to Nigerians to embrace peace and dialogue in settling differences, rather than threatening division and war. They said the country’s diversity had been its greatest strength, respect and reckoning in the global politics, adding that Nigeria has immeasurable dividends to savour in staying united than disintegrating. The senators, in an Eid-el-Kabir message yesterday by the forum’s Chairman, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, representing Ekiti Central, congratulated Muslims on the occasion. He warned that the country has nothing to gain with the war drums being beaten over agitations in some quarters, saying such demands can still be achieved through dialogue, understanding and mutual respect. Bamidele urged Muslims to pray for Nigeria as they celebrate Sallah for Allah to rescue the nation from the kidnappings, carnages of multifaceted dimensions and threat of secession. “This is not the time for blame game or exchange of tantrums on the basis of ethnicity, politics and religion that can exacerbate already tensed condition and stoke the embers of disunity amongst our diverse ethnic nationalities.
“The combined effects of the COVID-19 and insecurity have affected our economy adversely. Food inflation is crippling the economy and the masses are groaning in excruciating pains. “We need collective efforts to save the nation from this parlous situation. Our Muslim brothers have made huge sacrifices and this time offers another opportunity to help the country further with their prayers,” he stated. Also, a former deputy governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Sikiru Tae Lawal, who is a governorship aspirant in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Ekiti 2022 governorship election, urged Muslims to be obedient and generous, particularly to the less-privileged, as commanded by Prophet Mohammed. On security, he expressed disappointment over the increasing criminal activities in the country, with the attendant impact on the socio-economic lives of the people.