Students of Randle Senior High School, one of the beneficiaries of the SIFAX-sponsored Safe School Initiative in a picture pose after the training which was held in collaboration with a NGO,  Community Health Safety & Environmental Initiative (CHESRI). A total of 200 students drawn from selected public schools in Lagos State have been trained on various ways and means as well as strategies to live a drug-free life and how to avoid pitfalls of juvenile delinquencies. The programme, tagged “Safe School Initiative”, was an initiative of a non-governmental organization, Community Health Safety & Environmental Rescue Initiative (CHESRI) and sponsored by SIFAX Group. Students of Randle Senior High School, one of the beneficiaries of the SIFAX-sponsored Safe School Initiative in a picture pose after the training which was held in collaboration with a NGO,  Community Health Safety & Environmental Initiative (CHESRI  The beneficiary schools are – United Christian Secondary School, Apapa; Apapa Senior High School, Randle Senior Secondary School, Surulere and New Era Senior Girls School, Surulere. According to Lilian Azu, CHESRI’s Executive Director, the training was aimed at creating and promoting awareness about the dangers of various juvenile delinquencies that are prevalent among secondary school students in the state and to equip them with the right knowledge to combat such menace. Some of the topics focused on during the training include: Basic CPR skills, dangers of drug abuse, menstrual health and sexual abuse.New Era Girls School Students being taught basic CPR skills during the SIFAX-sponsored Safe School Initiative Training which was held at United Secondary School, Apapa in collaboration with a NGO, Community Health Safety & Environmental Initiative (CHESRI). recently. Students of New Era Senior Girls School, Surulere and a facilitator during the SIFAX-sponsored Safe School Initiative Training held at New Era Girls Secondary School, Surulere in collaboration with a NGO, Community Health Safety & Environmental Initiative (CHESRI) recently New Era Girls School Students being taught basic CPR skills during the SIFAX-sponsored Safe School Initiative Training which was held at United Secondary School, Apapa in collaboration with a NGO,  Community Health Safety & Environmental Initiative (CHESRI) recently. She lauded SIFAX Group for supporting the initiative, adding that the students trained would be supported to become ambassadors who will in turn train and guide other students. Olumuyiwa Akande, Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group while speaking at one of the schools, emphasized the importance of safety education among students and reinstated the company’s commitment as a socially-responsible establishment in supporting projects that are beneficial to the society.Students of United Secondary School, Apapa engaging in a simulation exercise to teach against alcoholism during the SIFAX-sponsored Safe School Initiative Training which was held at United Secondary School, Apapa in collaboration with a NGO,  Community Health Safety & Environmental Initiative (CHESRI) recently He said: “At SIFAX Group, we believe that safety is synonymous with prosperity. It is only a safe society that translates to a prosperous living. This is the reason we have thrown our weight behind this “Safe School Initiative” in order to equip the young ones with the skills needed to build a bright future. From what we have seen so far in the training, we are convinced that projects of this nature are needed in all our schools and as a company, we will not relent in our support for such initiatives.”