78 per cent of projects met original goals and business intent Skills and culture key enablers of post-COVID recovery  Project Management Institute (PMI), the world’s leading association for project professionals and changemakers, recently launched its Pulse of the Profession® report, which included feedback from 214 project professionals in Nigeria from a total of 3,950 surveyed around the globe.  The latest edition of the report explores how successful organisations adapted to the changes necessitated by the global COVID-19 pandemic. Although organisations went through significant disruption in the past year, and many projects were put on hold, PMI’s Pulse of The Profession report revealed that many Nigerian organisations were able to rise to the challenge. In fact, Nigerian organisations reported an average of 78 per cent of projects completed in the past 12 months successfully met the original goals and business intent of the project. Eighty-three per cent of project leaders in Nigeria reported productivity increased at their organisation in the past year, 22 percentage points higher than the global total. According to George Asamani, business development lead, Sub-Saharan Africa at the Project Management Institute (PMI), “Rather than attempting to plan for every potential outcome, enterprises must strengthen their ability to respond to change by upskilling their staff and building cultures that enable the emergence of strong enterprises that can seize on tomorrow’s opportunities and tackle tomorrow’s challenges. PMI’s Pulse of the Profession report illustrates successful enterprises focus on outcomes rather than process, with a clear sense of how to balance structure and governance while embracing change. They empower their people to make change happen by enabling them to master different ways of working, to become well-rounded professionals, and to elevate their power skills.” Conducted since 2006, Pulse of the Profession® is the premier global survey of project management professionals. Pulse tracks major trends in project management now and in the future, featuring original market research that gathers insights from project, program, and portfolio managers. The 2021 edition of Pulse comprised an online survey of 3,950 project professionals conducted in October and November 2020. Respondents represented a range of industries and regions, including North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, South Asia, Middle East/North Africa, and China. The survey was supplemented by in-depth interviews spanning a wide range of industries and regions.  To read more about how successful enterprises are turning ideas into reality, view the full report here.  About Project Management Institute (PMI) Project Management Institute (PMI) is the world’s leading professional association for a growing global community of millions of project professionals and changemakers worldwide. As the world’s leading authority on project management, PMI empowers people to make ideas a reality. Through global advocacy, networking, collaboration, research, and education. PMI prepares organisations and individuals at every stage of their career journey to work smarter so they can drive success in a world of change. Building on a proud legacy dating to 1969, PMI is a “for-purpose” organisation working in nearly every country around the world to advance careers, strengthen organisational success, and enable changemakers with new skills and ways of working to maximise their impact. PMI offerings include globally recognised standards, certifications, online courses, thought leadership, tools, digital publications, and communities. Visit us at https://www.pmi.org/, www.projectmanagement.com , https://www.linkedin.com/company/pminstitute , www.facebook.com/PMInstitute , and on Twitter