MultiChoice Nigeria’s popular reality show, “Nigerian Idol Season 6” which slated to end on July 11, 2021, gathered momentum between the top two, Kingdom Kroseide and Francis Atela to outwit each other on that day. According to judges both of them are looking good for the crown and they have made it to the final round.  They have performed exceptionally to outwit one another with striking talent, all in a bid at clinching the first prize which means a recording contract with a leading record label and N50, 000,000 (Fifty Million Naira) worth of prizes.  They all started by sang three songs each, which comprises their choice of song, their favourite, and the one the judges think they did best in the show. During the show that saw Akunna evicted due to low votes she got and the house rule is that she had to leave but she was given another opportunity to perform what the judges said was her best song, “Set Fire to the Rain” by Adele.  When it comes to judges to commenced on the two: Kingdom did excellently well with the song “Say Something” by A Great Big World, and wowed the judges, as they commented. DJ Sose put in good words saying “We are not giving up on you, you keep climbing higher. Seyi Shay’s commented; “perfect song, l am very proud of you, your performance is magical and l am proud of you.”  Not left out was Obi Asika, who enthused, “You always have the voice, your confidence shows you know what you are doing. You also have the swag.”  Francis first song, “So High”, by John Legend, was welcomed with accolades as Asika remarked, “You have a stadium performance, l can feel what you are singing.”  DJ Sose, who was very elated, pointed out his excellent stage presence and quality voice, saying “lots of people can feel what you are singing and you have proved why you are here”  It was indeed exciting as the next round of songs chosen by the top two contestants was captivating and ushered in good words from the judges.  Kingdom’s rendition of the song, “Lions Sleeps Tonight” by Solomon Linda, was hailed by Asika, who said his performance was world-class,” with DJ Sose’s greetings which shows he was highly delighted. With the words “Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening,” the award-winning Nigerian-Hungarian disc jockey praised him. He added, “You have brought the kingdom down and have given it to everybody.” Seyi also commented, “You are just making my head bigger and bigger, indeed you have too much to show the world.”  As the show continues, Francis’ second song “Please forgive me” by Bryan Adams left Seyi speechless, while DJ Sose posits “I like that, you did it technically. I would prefer you walk the stage more than you did.” Asika, who was also delighted with Francis’ gig stated “you have the presence and the voice, well done.”  Like the previous performance, Francis’ third song from a collection of Marvin Gaye “Sexual Healings”, was well done that it aroused Asika’s choice of sweet words which states, “Your voice is so unique, it sounds awesome”, followed by DJ Sose’s ” Whether you win or not, you are a star,” and Seyi’s “You are incredible.”  Kingdom’s “Just the way you are” by Bruno Mars was also exhilarating, a performance that made Seyi exclaim in Yoruba language saying, “Kilode, meaning what is this. She continued with joy, expressing herself, stating, “You are perfect, fantastic, thank you for that.”  Also, Asika extolled him saying,” You guys are creating problems here today; your performance, stage presence and swag are all incredible. You are going to be a star,” while DJ Sose affirmed “We are overly impressed, you are not the same guy we met at the beginning of the show. Nigeria please votes.”  The AmehNews recall that “The MultiChoice company promised it will continue to promote talent discovery in music through the Nigerian Idol, while espousing the company’s interest in the creative platform where abundant talents abound in the country.” As the show climaxes on July 11, the votes of the over 11 million fans will decide who wears the crown as the Nigerian Idol winner of Season 6 is aired on DStv Channel 198 and GOtv Channel 29.