The Nigeria Customs Service, Western Marine Command(WMC) in Lagos , now has as Area Controller, Deputy Comptroller Enonche Ochiba in acting capacity.  The Ag. CAC Ochiba took over the mantle of leadership of WMC on the 5 July 2021.  Before his posting as Ag. CAC WMC; he was the Ag. CAC Bauchi/Gombe Area Command with Headquarters in Bauchi. According to a statement by ASCI Isah Sulaiman, Customs Public Relations Officer, Western Marine Command on Thursday, the acting controller took over from Comptroller Gboyega Peters. The newly deployed acting Controller disclosed that the command made a total of 30 seizures from January to June, 2021 with Duty Paid Value (DPV)  of #747,202,000.00 only. Some of the seized bags of rice at Western Marin Command , Nigeria Customs Service
“These unprecedented seizures were made as a result of the strategies put in place in terms of 24hour patrol, capacity building, surveillance, intelligence gathering and determination of our operatives in making the waterways unbearable for smugglers. “These seizures are strong indication that the operatives of the Command are combat-ready in policing and enforcing the Federal Government Fiscal Policies despite all odds. Ochiba commended  officers and men of the Command for achieving these feats, even as he  appreciated the Comptroller General Customs and his management team for the motivation and support giving to the Command leading to seamless execution of it’s statutory responsibilities. The Ag. CAC urged stakeholders and well meaning Nigerians to support the Command in providing information that will aid its performance. Primarily, he enjoined law abiding citizens to go about with their legitimate businesses in accordance with the laws of the land as the target is always on economic saboteurs/daredevil smugglers. However, the Ag. Area Controller harped on sustained determination towards disseminating information relating to anti-smuggling drive of the Service and further dissuading members of the public on the inherent dangers of smuggling on social and economic stability of our dear country Nigeria