Customers on DStv and GOtv will be enthralled by international knockout football as the UEFA Euro 2020 tournaments enter semi-final stage. The clash between Italy and Spain is set to hold at Wembley Stadium in London on Tuesday 6 July 2021, at 8pm, while the faceoff between England and Denmark, also set to hold at Wembley Stadium in London on Wednesday 7 July 2021 will air at 8pm. The matches will air live on SS Football (DStv channel 205 and GOtv channel 31) and SS Euro2020 (DStv channel 204 and GOtv channel 32).   For England and Denmark, they have met in 22 matches dating back as far as 1948. The Three Lions have claimed 12 wins compared to four for the Danish Dynamite, while six games have been drawn.  Italy have been the most impressive team on display at Euro 2020 and underlined their status as potential champions with an impressive 2-1 win over Belgium in the Quarterfinals. Goals from Nicolo Barella and Lorenzo Insigne saw them overcome the highly-talented Red Devils in Munich.  Spain, meanwhile, needed penalties to overcome a stubborn Switzerland in their Quarterfinal tie. La Furia Roja enjoyed an early lead thanks to an own goal, but conceded to Xherdan Shaqiri and were unable to find another way past goalkeeper Jan Sommer right up to the 120-minute mark.  Denmark have been the ‘narrative’ team of Euro 2020, with their recovery from the shock of seeing Christian Eriksen collapse on the pitch in their opening game taking them all the way to the final four of the European Championships. The Danish Dynamite was in full effect in their Quarterfinal against the Czech Republic, securing a 2-1 victory at the Olympic Stadium in Baku.  England continued their impressive progress, keeping another clean sheet and turning on the style for the first time in the tournament as they crushed Ukraine 4-0 in Rome in their Quarterfinal. The Three Lions gave notice that they are to be considered true title contenders especially with home advantage for this match and the Final, should they get there.  DStv and GOtv customers can see all their favourite European stars vying for the UEFA Euro 2020 glory this week.  Visit www.dstvafrica.com and www.gotvafrica.com to subscribe or upgrade your DStv and GOtv package for the full Euro 2020 experience. With the DStv Explora, you can pause, rewind or record the exciting moments of the matches. And while you’re on the move, stream the matches on the DStv App which is free for download on the Apple and Google Play store and can be used on up to 5 devices. 