  Non-denominational Christian ministry, The Elevation Church (TEC), is set to equip teenagers with life and vocational skills at her upcoming annual mentorship conference, Navigate, which will take place at the church’s Lagos Island and Mainland Centres. Themed ‘CounterCulture’, Navigate 2021 holds at the church’s Pistis Conference Centre, Lekki and online from Monday 19th to Friday 23rd July, and at the Pistis Hub, Maryland from Monday 2nd to Friday 6th August 2021.  #CounterCulture is The Elevation Church’s response to the severe perversion of culture, wisdom and behaviour, which has influenced various aspects of human endeavour, instigating defiant behaviour amongst youths, and consequently posing a real threat to the security and stability of the society and the nation.  “Teenagers today are in a tough situation in a culture that does not often celebrate those who choose to do what is right.”, said Godman Akinlabi, Lead Pastor of The Elevation Church and Convener of the Navigate Conference.  According to Akinlabi, the insistence for and persistence in good behaviour, can be a lonely road to travel, and quite contrary to the expectations of teenage peers and the immediate community.  “Our goal in this year’s Navigate Conference is to equip teenagers with spiritual and relevant life tools, to enable them understand that there is an assignment they have been called to, to activate spiritual gifts and to go at life with intention even now,” he said, adding that teenagers need to know how to weaponize the tools God has given them for distinction in their daily lives and resist the influence of evil without losing the plot.”  “The Elevation Church has identified the lack of in-demand skills amongst young people as one of the major reasons for the high unemployment and under-employment statistics in Nigeria,” said Onomo Ukwa, Head of Communications at TEC.  “To take on this problem, the teenagers will be learning skills such as: animation, graphics design, social media marketing, programming, and web design, amongst other high-end skills at Navigate 2021, amidst familiar and new faces, in an atmosphere of bonding, networking, laughter and learning,” he added.  Navigate 2021 features an exciting line-up of speakers and mentors with carefully selected technical experts, experienced counsellors and coaches, as well as mentors of all kinds to help participating teenagers to make the most of this strategic conference.  Visit elevationng.org/navigate for further details and registration. About The Elevation Church The Elevation Church was founded in 2010 by Pastors Godman and Bolarinwa Akinlabi. The church has grown in capacity, with various locations across Lagos, London and Canada.   The church has developed a series of impactful events within the past eight years, including the Made for More Women’s Conference; Exponential, a conference for pastors and church leaders; Metamorphosis, a seminar for previously married, remarried, and blended families; Hangout, an annual conference for Singles; and Accelerate Conference, a mid-year event to prepare people for the rest of the year. Additionally, the church has a social intervention arm, Pistis Foundation, targeted at improving access to education, health and shelter in underserved communities.