Gunmen suspected to be bandits on motorcycles have launched a fresh onslaught on Tsauwa village in Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State, killing no fewer than 21 persons, including children and women. Some houses, food items and shops as well as motorcycles were also burnt during the invasion. Many other residents sustained gunshot wounds in the incident that lasted from 5 pm to 6 pm on Monday, while many survivors have fled the area. A prominent leader in the village, Mr. Suleiman Abdulkadir, who confirmed the incident to THISDAY yesterday, said the marauding bandits invaded the village with sophisticated weapons when most of the residents were returning from their farms and started shooting sporadically. The member representing Batsari constituency at the state House of Assembly, Hon. Jabiru Yusuf Yau-yau, who also confirmed the attack to THISDAY, said the hoodlums killed many people. He added that the state Commissioner for Police, Mr. Sanusi Buba, and other top security officers have visited the village. Abdulkadir stated that hundreds of residents, mostly women and children who survived the deadly invasion, had fled the village to Batsari, the headquarters of Batsari Local Government Area for fear of future occurrence. He said: “About 270 bandits riding on motorcycles attacked our village (Tsauwa) yesterday (Monday) and killed 21 people. Right now, we have 21 dead bodies and none of the bodies have been taken to the cemetery and those who survived the attack are moving to Batsari town. “Last time they killed 38 people and even a few days ago they ambushed some people and killed nine. This is the third attack on Tsauwa village. In the first one, they killed 38 people; the second one, they killed 11 people and yesterday (Monday) they killed 21. See their corpses laying down here; even the burial has not commenced.” He added that because of banditry and other nefarious activities afflicting farming communities in Batsari LGA, many farmers have abandoned the farm and left their villages for safer places. He said even those who farmed last year could not access their farms for harvest because bandits had taken over their farmlands. “The only way for farmers in this village to be able to produce this season is for the government to provide enough security personnel for us. We have just started planting our crops and they had stopped us from farming. Government should please and please help us with enough security personnel that would remain in this village,” he stated. When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Gambo Isah, a Superintendent of Police, confirmed the incident and promised to brief journalists later.
He was yet to hold the press briefing as at press time.