All arrangements have been concluded for the successful hosting of the much-anticipated Experiential Marketers Association of Nigeria (EXMAN) Brand Experience Summit billed to hold this week, on the 14th and 15th July 2021. The two-day Brand Experience Summit will feature two plenaries and 40 sessions across five different parallel streams each day covering Brands/Campaigns/Ideas, Marketing Technology/Data, Agency/Insights/Measurement, Shopper/Trade Marketing and Academy. According to the organisers, the topics under each stream have been carefully curated to cover the wide gamut of business practice, consumer engagement, evidence-based marketing, creativity, and business growth. The hybrid event which will hold virtually and at Providence By Mantis in Ikeja, Lagos, boasts seasoned speakers across industries. The summit will have Tosin Runsewe, CEO at Afya Care/Non-Executive Chairman, Evercare Hospital Lekki; Biola Alabi, Founder, Biola Alabi Media; Cosmos Maduka, Chairman Coscharis Group and Stella Fubara, Director International Operations – Dubai Dept of Tourism Commerce & Marketing, as plenary speakers.  The Mr. Cosmas Maduka will kick off the first day by talking about how to grow business from small to big business while Stella Fubara-Obinwa will be speaking about building brand experience for destination brands. On day two, the plenaries will be taken by Biola Alabi who will be talking about building brands with cultural relevance while Tosin Runsewe will speak about preparing your business for the big stage. Among the powerful lineup of speakers also expected at the summit are Adenike Adebola, Marketing and Innovations Director, Guinness Nigeria; Amaechi Okobi, Group Head, Corporate Communications – Access Bank; Emmanuel Agu, Group Marketing Director, JOTNA Nigeria Limited, Dr Rotimi Olaniyan Founder, Experiential NG; Tolulope Medebem, CEO Aster Integrated Marketing Ltd.; Mr. Kehinde Salami, MD, Ideas House and Himanshu Verma CEO Ipsos Nigeria and West Africa. Others are Atunyota ‘Alibaba’ Akpobome, the famous ‘Alibaba’ Comedian; Oluwaseyi Adeoye, CEO Pierrine Consulting; Kayode Olagesin, CEO Towncriers; Steve Babaeko, President AAAN; Femi Adelusi, President MIPAN, GMD BrandEye; Dr Lekan Fadolapo, Registrar/CEO APCON; Ayona Trimnell Coordinator, W initiative, Access Bank; Tinuke Bosun-Okusaga, Management Consultant; Victor Gbenga Afolabi, Group CEO, GDM Group and Emeka Oparah, VP Corporate Communications and CSR, Airtel, among others. According to the President of EXMAN, Mr. Tade Adekunle, the Brand Experience Summit is set to provide a platform for robust discussions about business growth, innovation, and brand experience in Nigeria. These discussions will be the focus over the two days of the Summit. Mrs. Sola Antwi, the Communications Lead for the Brand Experience Summit explained that the summit will be delivered in a hybrid format. According to her, attendees can register for the summit by going to the EXMAN website, www.exman.com.ng.  