The MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) is a multi-tiered training programme from four MTF academies, based in Kenya, Nigeria, Zambia and South Africa have trained 132 students over the last five years \The MTF is a product of MultiChoice Africa was designed to focus on positively impacting the technical and professional value chain in the film and television industry across the continent.  The MultiChoice Talent Factory Academy is a film school, a business school and a passion school wrapped into one. It has the potential to not only empower the students to become great storytellers but to equip them in a powerful way with up-to-date information and technology and from a creative entrepreneurship perspective, to empower them to build institutions and become employers of labour. The Academy in Nigeria comprises students from both Nigeria and Ghana – two of the most vibrant film industries in West Africa.  The Academy’s vision is for the students to become key players in the growth and sustainability of Africa’s creative film and television industry. We prepare the students as future business owners who will in turn, play their own part in building an economy around the industry. It’s time that we not only reap the rewards of high-end quality TV and film products, but we also equally benefit from the investments behind the lens. From the thousands of applications received, it’s evident that there’s a strong desire to learn from and work with other African creatives.  Not only is the Academy a springboard to a career in the entertainment industry, but it will also create a closely-knit community of African professionals with a willingness to narrate Africa’s stories to the world. The difference between the Academy and other film schools is that we want to ensure that your creative talent empowers you. We are connecting creativity to commerce and connecting professionals to the industry. To accomplish our mission, we are working with the School of Media and Communications, Pan Atlantic University to deliver and execute the curriculum.  The management of MTF revealed that the Acting for Camera Masterclass has been most requested and highly anticipated by our MTF Masterclass community. Therefore, came up on March 2, 2021 to announced its very first Acting for Camera Masterclass in partnership with the world-renowned AMDA College and Conservatory of the Performing Arts. According to the statement saying AMDA (The American Musical and Dramatic Academy) has been ranked the number one college for performing arts in the United States and will add a game-changing dynamic to the MTF shared-value initiative offering.  A report have it that since the introduction of the MTF industry Masterclasses in 2018, MTF has provided some of the most sought-after masterclasses facilitated by film and TV experts including renowned Nigerian filmmaker Tunde Kelani and veteran Kenyan producer Appie Matere, with notable global partners including Dolby, CBS Justice Africa and the London Film School to mention a few.  In an effort to deepening the academics further the MTF seeks collaboration with AMDA to further enrich the knowledge base of emerging creatives and seasoned professionals through technique-driven and performance-based learning.  According to the report saying the virtual Masterclass will delve into crucial elements including basic film theory, camera focused actor warm-up, on-camera scene work and more. It’s holistically designed to perfect acting for film, TV and new media and will be facilitated by AMDA faculty members Jason Chaet and Ray Virta, it was added.  “Chaet is an award-winning filmmaker, theatre director and producer and serves as the Supervisor of First Semester Acting, Acting for Camera and Screenwriting at AMDA. Chaet’s film credits include multiple-award-winning film Putzel and film and TV credits including Remember, Kissing Jessica Stein, Avenues and more recently, Seneca.  Also revealed about Ray Virta that has over 40 years of teaching experience at AMDA, New York University and the Playwrights Horizons Theater School. His film acting and theatre legacy includes Broadway, all incarnations of the legal drama TV series Law and Order, as well as directing credits in New York for Comedie of Errors, The Way of the World and As You Like It, among others. Virta has been an AMDA faculty member since 2001.  “AMDA College of the Performing Arts is excited and honoured to begin this enriching partnership and collaboration with Multichoice Talent Factory. We see this as an opportunity to connect our world-renowned faculty with individuals who are already rich with storytelling and performance talent throughout Africa. This MTF and AMDA collaboration is an example of our commitment to the global endowment of humanity through the arts,” says Blake Babbitt, AMDA Director of Outreach.  “Alongside the Acting on Camera Masterclass, AMDA will facilitate additional Masterclasses with MTF throughout 2021 including on-camera acting technique, musical theatre performance, dance and industry tips.  “This partnership with AMDA couldn’t have come at a better time as the continent is experiencing a surge in the demand and consumption of original African content and the exponential growth has resulted in youth seeking careers in the performing arts industry. Since the launch of our industry masterclasses, we have been inundated with requests for acting masterclasses.  We’re excited to kick-off 2021 with a global partnership that will help us respond to this need and to continue to tell great stories that resonate with diverse audiences and honour Africa’s oral cultures and traditions,” says John Ugbe, CEO: MultiChoice Nigeria.  Also early this year 2021, MultiChoice came out with another skill idea tagged develop the ‘next generation of Scriptwriters’ that led to selection of twelve young South Africans to participate in a continental first Scriptwriting Incubator to find the next generation of storytellers.  MultiChoice Company said our continent has got an incredible opportunity to empower a new economy because somehow, our youths have storytelling as part of their heritage. They can express themselves through storytelling. Everything about Africa is a story – the politics, the economics, the social interactions, are all stories. At this moment, the question technology is asking us is, how are you going to take the opportunity technology offers and connect it to development? The fastest way to do that is through storytelling.