The lingering dispute between the 36 state governors and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) over the repayment of budget support facility extended to the state governments will be resolved by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. A meeting to that effect at the instance of the vice president will hold soon with representatives of state governors, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning and the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to resolve the disagreement over the repayment of the budget support facility obtained by the states. This followed a disagreement between the governors and the CBN governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, at yesterday’s virtual meeting of the National Economic Council (NEC) presided over by the vice president in Abuja. At the NEC meeting, the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, had disclosed that the state chief executives wanted the loan repayment due in May to be deferred. But the CBN governor insisted that the states should begin the repayment without future delay, especially the monies owed to the banks, saying there were challenges arising from delays particularly as it concerned auditing. Vice President’s spokesman, Mr. Laolu Akande, in a statement after the NEC meeting, said “on the Budget Support Facility, state governors restated their request to defer the repayment of the loans, which was to have started this month. Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, who is also Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum, reported interactions with the Finance Minister and the CBN Governor regarding the matter. “The CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, also emphasised the importance of the timely repayment of loans, especially those owed to commercial banks, indicating the challenges inherent in a further delay in payment, including audit concerns. He said the repayment of the commercial loans should resume this month. “In addition, the Vice President stated that he will be holding a meeting soon with representatives of the State Governors, the Finance Minister and the CBN Governor to resolve the issue raised.” The NEC was also informed that the nation’s Sovereign Investment now stands at N160.06 billion while net assets is N772.75 billion.
The Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) in a presentation by its Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr. Uche Oji, to the monthly meeting of NEC disclosed that NSIA has recorded a 343 per cent growth in Total Comprehensive Income totalling N160.06 billion in 2020 compared to N36.15 billion in the previous year and 33 per cent growth in Net Assets, rising up to N772.75 billion from the previous N579.54 billion.
The Council also learnt from the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Mr Clem Agba, that the nation’s Excess Crude Account (ECA) peaked at $72.41 million as of May 18, 2021. At the virtual meeting of the Council, which comprises the 36 State Governors, the Federal Capital Territory Minister and the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (GBN), and other Federal Government officials, a session was devoted to holding the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the NSIA where reports and financial statements, including the audit, were presented. The NSIA boss, Orji, submitted that the NSIA achieved a core income of N109 billion compared to N33.07 billion in 2019, excluding forex gains of N51 billion in 2020 and N1.29 billion in 2019. He noted that despite the challenges of COVID-19, it had a favourable year owing to strong performance from its investments in international capital markets, improved contribution from associates, as well as exchange rate gains from foreign currency positions. In response to COVID-19, the NSIA partnered with Global Citizen, a not-for-profit group, to form the Nigeria Solidarity Support Fund (NSSF), acquired and distributed oxygen concentrators to 21 teaching hospitals as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility; in addition to staffing support to the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 towards combatting the pandemic. Other major milestones reached by the NSIA were recorded across domestic infrastructure projects, specifically in roads, agriculture, healthcare, technology and gas industrialization. NEC also received an update on Nigeria’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic by the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu.
According to NCDC boss, in the last two months, there has been a reduction in the number of cases globally, stating that even India has also experienced a reduction in its infection rates in the last five days. He added that in Nigeria, the total number of cases as of yesterday, May 19, 2021, was 165,809, while the number of cases tested was 2,002,653, with 7,323 active cases. It was also disclosed that discharged cases were now 156,419, while there had been 2,067 deaths.
Ihekweazu stressed that the “transmission rate in the country is low,” adding that attention is now on tracking the new B1.617.2 variant from India while there are only three such cases identified in Nigeria so far. According to him, the government focus should be on the protocols to stop the spread of the virus, while the health authorities and agencies will keep an eye on the tracking the Indian variant. Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Mr. Clem Agba, in his presentation, gave the Council the monthly update on Excess Crude Account which balance as at 18th May 2021 stands at $72,413,574.70; Stabilization Account balance also as of 18th May 2021 is N24,741,213,941.88 while Development of Natural Resources Account stands at N23,650,579,140.23. NEC also received a presentation on the Digital Switch Over (DSO) by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. He stated that it was the International Telecommunications Union, ITU, that decided on member states switching off analogue television transmission to ‘go digital’. The DSO will be taking off first in Lagos, Kano and Rivers States, he stated.
According to him, the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and the DSO Ministerial Task Force are tasked with ensuring that Nigeria ‘digitizes’ and develop a public information and awareness campaign to inform citizens about DSO/FreeTV.
The Minister disclosed that the switch-over has a revenue generation potential of N20 billion annually; and that the funds will enable the NBC support and upgrade DSO initiative, as well as fund local producers.