Marriott Hotels, the signature of Marriott Bonvoy’s portfolio of 30 extraordinary brands, today announced its debut in Nigeria with the opening of the highly anticipated Lagos Marriott Hotel Ikeja. The hotel reflects the newest global design vision for Marriott Hotels, featuring sophisticated and intuitively designed spaces for today’s modern traveller, enabling guests to relax, work and find inspiration during their stay.L-R: Alhaji Muhammad Badaru Abubakar, Governor of Jigawa State; Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ooni of Ife; Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Governor, Lagos State; Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, former President of Nigeria; Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture of Nigeria; Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, former President of Nigeria; Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group and his wife, Mrs. Afolasade Afolabi, during the official commissioning of the Lagos Marriott Hotel, Ikeja yesterday. “We are excited to have opened the Lagos Marriott Hotel Ikeja, bringing Marriott Hotels’ transformed vision to Nigeria,” said Volker Heiden, Area Vice President – Sub Saharan Africa, Marriott International. “Lagos is a vibrant and bustling city with much to see and do for leisure and business travellers. What better place to debut the Marriott Hotels brand in Nigeria with its thoughtful service and intuitive spaces that enable guests to be inspired during their stay.”
Lagos Marriott Hotel Ikeja offers 206 guestrooms and 44 suites each with expansive views of the city. The spacious guestrooms are thoughtfully designed with contemporary décor and intuitive in-room amenities. Natural colours, crisp lines, purposeful lighting and comfortable bedding create an intimate and peaceful space for guests to get into their best headspace for success. Deluxe walk-in showers and spa-like lighting complete the relaxed experience throughout the room. In line with Marriott Hotels’ newest global design strategy, local accents add a sense of place to the sleek aesthetic. Open workspaces allow for flexibility to connect anytime.
The Greatroom at the heart of the hotel blends modern elements with local touches inspired by Nigeria’s rich heritage and traditional crafts. The multi-use space is designed for guest to socialise, relax and work.
The M Club is an exclusive space reserved for Elite members and Club paying guests and provides complimentary breakfast, evening drinks, hors d’oeuvres and premium beverages throughout the day. The M Club also offers the brand’s signature Mind Menu, a selection of delicious snacks and beverages with active ingredients to enhance mind and body. Accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week, the M Club provides free Wi-Fi, printing services and power supplies to ensure uninterrupted productivity for business travelers.