Following complaints and concerns raised by the acting Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mohammed Bello Koko over been sidelined by the Corporate and Strategic Communication Unit of the agency. Mohammed Bello Koko, Acting Managing Director NPA Fresh facts have emerged that the strangle hold on the public communication channels of the Authority by the suspended MD, Hadiza Bala Usman seems so be unbreakable even as there seems to be a conspiracy of silence by the Public Relations Department of the Authority not to perform their statutory duty for which they are paid for with public funds to duly update @nigerianports, with the current development in the nation’s maritime and agency.  The AmehNews recall that Ms Bala-Usman was suspended from office on May 7, 2021 over alleged financial malfeasance by the Federal Government which set up a panel to probe her handling of NPA activities in the about five years of her headship of the management of the Authority.  It was expected that the acting MD would have reached out to stakeholders and all wishers in the maritime sector courtesy the Communication Unit of the authority for instance in the just concluded Ramadan festival, no such communications was done through all the verified social media handles of the NPA, email inclusive.  Further more, since Koko’s acting appointment, not a single press release or statement has been issued out to the public by the department responsible for the activities in the last two weeks which is uncommon in  government parastatals.  Thus, to the followers of NPA social media called and know @nigerianports, Ms Bala-Usman is still the managing director of NPA while the Acting Managing Director Mohammed Bello-Koko is the Executive Director, Finance and Administration of NPA. Footnote: in reality and fare play in employment law, ms Bala-Usman is still the managing director of NPA and likewise Mohammed Bello-Oko the executive director, finance and administration until otherwise pronounced of replacement by President of the federal republic of Nigeria.  Meanwhile, observers who are not surprised but amused by the situation, said this is not unrelated to the efforts of Ms Bala-Usman to return to NPA and continue as the MD.  It is widely believed that some employees of NPA Public Affairs department and media consultants were behind satirical reports aimed at attacking the person of Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi and the Acting MD.  They had allegedly deliberately avoided tweeting the usual Eid El Fitri greetings during the last Muslim holiday to followers of the official Twitter handle as a way of making NPA look inactive in the eyes of the public.  One of the observers who would not want his name published said: “If you have been following events since she (Ms Bala-Usman) was suspended, you will notice that she has activated all her networks local and international, her political godfather is there, taking her to the powerful northern aristocrats to lobby for her return.  “She believes that she will return because of her powerful connections in the north, not that she does not know that she cannot be able to escape most of the allegations against her. So, she still has a finger in the things going on in NPA.  “There is also the issue of blind loyalty among staff, which is not professional because they are there to serve whoever the government appoints. You can also not rule out the fact that some might be afraid that if they give their full support to the Acting MD and Hadiza happens to win her battle and returns to NPA; what will happen to their job? Nobody wants to go to the unemployment market at this time. So, it is neither here nor there,” he said. Since then, more revelations have emerged on acts of insubordination, disobedience of lawful directives from superior government officials and arbitrariness with regards to termination of contractual agreements with Nigerian  investors in the port industry as hallmarks of ‘Hadiza’s NPA.’ Following complaints and concerns raised , handlers of the Twitter account posted at about midnight on Tuesday that “the Ag. MD @mojalilah has today led the Management team to an emergency meeting on the review of concession and lease agreements with the @nassnigeria Joint Committee on Marine Transport & Ports and Harbours under the leadership of Sen. Danjuma Goje and Hon. Garba Datti Babawo” Footnote: in reality and fare play in employment law, ms Bala-Usman is still the managing director of NPA and likewise Mohammed Bello-Oko the executive director, finance and administration until otherwise pronounced of replacement by the President of federal republic of Nigeria.