….seeking to expand operations into various African countries  SIFAX Group, a group of companies with investment in Maritime, Aviation, Oil & Gas, Haulage & Logistics, Financial Services and Hospitality, has assured the Liberian government of its readiness to partner with the country in order to explore opportunities in its maritime and logistics sector. L-R: Fidelis Idagbonre, Senior Manager, Monitoring & Compliance, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited; Glenn Urdaneta, General Manager, Operations, Ports & Cargo Handling; Quiwu Yeke, Executive Director, Liberia Agency for Community Empowerment; Hon Bill Twehway, Managing Director, National Port Authority of Liberia; Capt. Ibraheem Olugbade, Executive Director, Administration, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited; Tobi Afolabi, Executive Director, Operations, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited; Oluwadare Filani, Manager, Business Development and Strategic Planning, SIFAX Group and Roland Sunnyway, Chief of Staff to the Managing Director, National Port Authority of Liberia during the operational tour of Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited, the flagship company of SIFAX Group by the Liberian Port Authority officials yesterday.
 L-R: Hon Bill Twehway, Managing Director, National Port Authority of Liberia; Capt. Ibraheem Olugbade, Executive Director, Administration, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited; Fidelis Idagbonre, Senior Manager, Monitoring and Compliance, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited and Tobi Afolabi, Executive Director, Operations, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited during the operational tour of Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited, the flagship company of SIFAX Group by the Liberian Port Authority officials yesterday  This assurance was given during a facility tour of Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited (the flagship maritime subsidiary of SIFAX Group) and SIFAX Inland Container Terminal, Ijora Causeway, Lagos, by the management of the National Port Authority of Liberia led by Hon. Bill Twehway, its Managing Director. R-L: Paul Linden, Managing Director, SIFAX Inland Container Terminal, Ijora Causeway explaining the SIFAX Inland Container terminal outlay to Hon Bill Twehway, Managing Director, National Port Authority of Liberia during the tour of SIFAX Inland Container Terminal, Ijora Causeway, Lagos by the Liberian Port Authority officials yesterday. L-R: Oluwadare Filani, Manager, Business Development and Strategic Planning, SIFAX Group; Hon Bill Twehway, Managing Director, National Port Authority of Liberia; Capt. Ibraheem Olugbade, Executive Director, Administration, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited and Tobi Afolabi, Executive Director, Operations during the operational tour of Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited, the flagship company of SIFAX Group by the Liberian Port Authority officials yesterday. While welcoming the visitors, Capt. Ibraheem Olugbade, Executive Director, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited noted that SIFAX Group is ready to share its wealth of experience in the management of port facilities. “In realisation of our Pan-African dream, we are seeking to expand our operations into various African countries. As a Group, we have a rich pedigree in port terminal management and logistics. Since the take-over of the Terminal C of the Tin Can Island Port in 2006, we have invested heavily in the acquisition of equipment and skilled human capital. This has resulted in a great improvement in our service delivery.  We also recently acquired over 10 acres of land on which SIFAX ICT is sited at Ijora. Our plan is to make sure vessels berth at the Ijora terminal. This speaks a great deal about our commitment to improving the country’s maritime industry”, he said. L-R: Roland Sunnyway, Chief of Staff to the Managing Director, National Port Authority of Liberia; Hon Bill Twehway, Managing Director, National Port Authority of Liberia; Paul Linden, Managing Director, SIFAX Inland Container Terminal, Ijora Causeway; Oluwadare Filani, Business Development Manager, SIFAX Group and Rotimi Sangodeyi, Managing Director, Global Bank of Liberia during a tour of SIFAX Inland Container Terminal, Ijora Causeway, Lagos by the Liberian Port Authority officials yesterday. Bill Twehway, Managing Director, National Port Authority of Liberia, expressed satisfaction with the quality of equipment and facilities at the two terminals. He said: “We are happy with what we have seen here today. We want to grow our ports in Liberia and we have no doubt that SIFAX Group is capable based on the equipment and facilities in the terminal as well as their record of performance. We will invite the SIFAX Group management to Liberia in order to have a first-hand assessment of our terminal so they can see areas where we can improve and where investments will be made”.