The Chairman of Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) PLC, Barr. (Dr.) Taiwo Afolabi has been conferred with Award of Excellence by the Presidential Diary Magazine.He was conferred with the prestigious award as recognition of his immense contributions towards Aviation Support Services and Development in Nigeria during the 5th Anniversary Conference and Award ceremony of the magazine in Abuja. According to Novel Communications Ltd, Publisher of the Presidential Diary Magazine, Barr. (Dr.) Taiwo Afolabi was selected for the Excellence Award as a result of his demonstration of outstanding excellence leadership while piloting the affairs of SAHCO and has successfully made the company one of the best Aviation Ground Handling in Africa, a feat which is rare these days. The Chairman who was represented at the event  by Basil Agboarumi, the Managing Director/CEO of Skyway Aviation Handling Company PLC, thanked the organisers for finding him worthy of the award, he reiterated the Dr. Afolabi’s commitment to continue to render excellent services through his numerous companies while servicing humanity which he is known to have always done. Barr. (Dr.) Taiwo Olayinka Afolabi, born in Ondo to the family of Chief & Chief (Mrs.) Samson Afolabi, is a native of Idokunusi, Ijebu in the Ijebu East Local Government Area of Ogun State.  He started his educational pursuit at Ansar ud Deen Primary School in Ondo and proceeded to Baptist Grammar School, Ibadan where he obtained his West African School Certificate (WASC). His quest to attain high level of academic excellence and leadership in advocacy, led him to the University of Lagos, where he obtained the degree in Law.  He became a member of the Noble profession when he was called to the Nigerian Bar by the Body of Benchers on Wednesday, 4th November, 2009. He began his working career with a shipping outfit, The Nigerian Express Agencies Limited (NEAL). He became an outstanding young manager in Shipping Operation and Ports Management before travelling abroad to study Shipping Management.  Barr. (Dr.) Taiwo Afolabi came back and worked with the same company as its Head of Operations.  However, because of his burning desire and passion for the development of the maritime sector, he left NEAL in 1988 to establish his own company – Sifax Nigeria Limited. Sifax, as it is now popularly known, has become a leader in ports, shipping and bonded terminal operation, and an institution in Shipping and Maritime service sector with offices in Tema Ghana, Durban South Africa, Equatorial Guinea, Djibouti, Malabo, Houston USA, Rotterdam Belgium and London United Kingdom. Recently, Sifax Group launched Lagos Marriott Hotel Ikeja, setting a new standard of premium luxury within the capital of Nigeria’s commercial hub, Lagos. Sifax Group is a key player in  Ports Operations, Aviation services, Haulage & Logistics, Groupage, Cargo Consolidation, Warehousing, Ship Agency, Ship Chartering, Stevedoring, Off-Dock Services , Packing & Removal ,Marine Services, Importation & Sales of Crude ,Plant Hire, Financial Services among others.