As the term of the incumbent President of NACCIMA comes to an end, Ide. John C. Udeagbala (NPOM, KSJI), who is warming up to take the mantle of leadership. Udeagbala is an Industrialist who is an alumnus of the Harvard University School of Business Administration, USA, having successfully completed the Advanced Management Programme (1997). Ide John C. Udeagbala is currently the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of J. Udeagbala Holdings Nig. Ltd., a holding name for an indigenous conglomerate comprising six subsidiaries that operate as independent enterprises, namely: Beauty Base Limited, Kitchen Vegetable Oil Ltd, Quality Pipes Industries Ltd, Dynamic Solvent Extraction Co. Ltd, Dynamic Farms Ltd, and J. Udeagbala and Sons Ltd. He won the National Productivity Merit Award (NPOM), in the Business Productivity category, in 1996. In the economic environment, under the manufacturing sector in Nigeria, his quest for excellence has earned one of his company’s subsidiaries an award by the Central Bank of Nigeria as the Best SMEIS, 2008. He has also won the Excellence Award by the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB), 2015  Ide John C. Udeagbala is a strong corporate player who has acquired expertise and experience relevant to Corporate Management & Governance. He expresses strategic thinking, planning and leadership skills, with proficiency in engagement, collaboration and consultation. He has an understanding and appreciation of the broader policy contexts of the delivery and planning of top management functions. His high levels of performance in his various fields of endeavour has placed him in good stead for referencing. He is an economic nationalist, who reflects a high degree of integrity and standing in the community, with demonstrated values of acting in good faith, and in the best interests of the society. He has served on the board of several Government establishments, and of some organized private sector enterprises. He was on the board of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) from 2009 – 2015; He was on the board of Raw Materials Research And Development Council from 2005 – 2007; He was a member of the Inter- Ministerial Committee Of Federal Govt. On The Influx Of Foreign Goods Into Nigeria 2006; Chairman, Abia State Environmental and Sanitation Committee from 2003 – 2007. He currently serves on several boards – Board Member, Nigeria Customs Service; Commissioner, Tax Appeal Tribunal – South East Zone; Director, Landmark Finance & Investment Co.Ltd; and Director, Quality Ceramics Industries Akwa Ibom State.  Udeagbala is a past president of the Aba Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ACCIMA) and Past President of the South-East Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (SECCIMA). In the traditional sphere, he is a member of Obi-in-Council, an Ichie, and holds the prestigious title of “Agbalanze” and “Ide” of Ozubulu.