Of recent, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, received a booklet on the activities of Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) in the transportation industry in 2020, from the Executive Secretary/CEO, Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Barr. Hassan Bello. Infrastructure development activities are positively heating up in the North, with the Commissioning of the Nigerian Shippers Council Northwest Zonal Coordinating Office in Kano, anchored by the presently most focused Maritime parastatal head, Barrister Hassan Bello. Also Hassan Bello only very recently, flagged off a N16bn Jos outlet, with the sole aim of ensuring that cargo facilitation is truly entrenched, beyond Lagos. This Executive Secretary/CEO, Nigerian Shippers’ Council in his speech full of Diligent, de-tribalized and determined but strongly supported by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi has swiftly moved from Jos, to berth in Kano, with the Northwest Zonal Office Commissioning. This characteristics gesture was however, distinctly highlighted by a structured inspection of Dala Inland Dry Port by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, in Kano State. However commending Hassan Bello for his good vision and Commitment, industry watchers have also raised the red-flag, pointing out that Amaechi might be wanting to cash in on Bello’s selfless dedication, to enroute himself to the Northern elites for political gains, as developments unfold towards 2023 General Election. Hajia Othman Kareemat, Director, North-West Zonal Coordinating Office Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Hassan Bello, Executive Secretary/CEO, Nigerian Shippers’ Council, His Excellency Abdullahi Ganduje, Executive Governor, Kano State, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, Honorable Minister of Transportation and Dr. Magdalene Ajani, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation Right or wrong, the pundits opined that with President Mohammadu Buhari not running for a third term, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar has emerged the Beautiful Bride, as they noted that, not only is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed not enjoying a massive Yoruba support, even the assumed, cosmopolitan Lagos support, is gradually becoming suspect and questionable. The Maritime industry watchers Specifically called attention to Amaechi’s pledge to Governor Ganduje, of turning Kano, without waters into a revered Maritime domain, using the instrumentality of rails running through Kano to Lagos and Maradi in Niger Republic; as well as a functional Dry Port. Said an industry watcher: “There is an observable pressure on Amaechi to run for a position at the Centre. His backers have also ruled out anything like Senate…as that may reveal his lack of debt at the grassroot. “Remember, his acclaimed larger than life political status, couldn’t see Dr. Dakuku Peterside through. So, the pressure is on him to run as Vice President. “But, with the way things are with Senator Bola Tinubu in Yoruba land, it was also considered safer, saner and more realistic, for him to seek and secure Atiku Abubakar’s attention. Remember, like I told you, the former Vice President is presently, the Beautiful Bride!”, he explained further, stressing that his name be not mentioned. Speaking in the same vein, another stakeholder, Tony Emeordi said he supports Rotimi Amaechi’s political forage, and called attention to recent statement by Amaechi, to the panel probing Suspended Managing Director of Nigerian Port Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman, that the Authority’s handling of the Intel’s crisis be duly investigated, particularly, the management of Courts intervention, to know if fairness was adhered to. Speaking further, Emeordi said: “You know some observers still strongly believe that the suspension of Hadiza Usman was to prepare grounds for restoration of all business relationships between the NPA and Integrated Logistics Nigeria Limited (INTELS). “You remember what the Minister said: “Investigate Issues leading to the termination of pilotage and other contracts of Nigerian Ports Authority and confirm compliance with the terms of the respective contracts, court rulings and Presidential directives!” “It goes beyond what he said. You must also see why he said it!”, he indicated, hinting that, his view was outside the notion that even when the Minister’s body language was to the effect that due diligence be strictly adhered to, while the NPA response was still like, Amaechi should calm down. In the meantime, and perhaps going further to establish that Atiku Abubakar may in fact has emerged the Beautiful Bride, grapevine sources posit that even the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was presently, also building political bridges towards the former Vice President. 