Engr. Mansur Ahmed, President, Manufacturers Association Of Nigeria (MAN) says as we celebrate our giant strides in the last 50 years, this cake cutting ceremony commemorates the immense contributions of our founding fathers: Late Chief Adeola Odutola, Chief Jerome Udoji, Late Babatunde Jose, Alhaji Hassan Adamu (Wakili Adamawa) and a host of others.  L-R:  Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo; President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engr. Mansur Ahmed; FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, Senator Saidu Ahmed Alkali, at the Symbolic Cake Cutting Ceremony to Mark the 50th Anniversary of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria held in Abuja yesterday  FRIDAY 7/5/2021  MAN President stated this during his welcome address at the symbolic cake cutting ceremony to mark the 50th anniversary of MAN, held on Friday May 07, 2021, At MAN Abuja Liaison Office  Engr Ahmed noted that on behalf of the National Council and members of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) appreciate all MAN members with strength of over 2,500 which comprises the multinationals, large corporations, small and medium scale industries. These members are serviced through our fourteen (14) branches nationwide; ten sectoral (10) and seventy-six (76)) sub-sectoral groups; The Abuja Liaison Office and the National Head Office in Lagos. L-R:  Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo; President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engr. Mansur Ahmed; FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, Senator Saidu Ahmed Alkali, at the Symbolic Cake Cutting Ceremony to Mark the 50th Anniversary of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria held in Abuja yesterday FRIDAY 7/5/2021  According to the president, In West Africa and Africa, MAN has played significant roles in fostering collaboration amongst manufacturers and advancing the interest and recognition of the Private Sector.  He disclosed that we are currently mobilizing all various Manufacturers Association in West Africa to revive the Federation of West African Manufacturers Association (FEWAMA) with the active support of ECOWAS. At the same time; in conjunction with the African Union, MAN is leading the formation of the Pan-African Manufacturers Association, he added.  “And in response to the start -up of the AfCFTA, MAN is an active part of a continental Private Sector Movement to bring the African Private under a single Umbrella – The African Business Council where our President has been elected the Vice President of the Council. L-R: Senator Saidu Ahmed Alkali; Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo; President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engr. Mansur Ahmed, and FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, at the Symbolic Cake Cutting Ceremony to Mark the 50th Anniversary of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria held in Abuja yesterday  FRIDAY 7/5/2021 Engr Ahmed said he appreciate every member of MAN and the entire staff of the Association for their unalloyed support and commitment towards ensuring our noble Association continues to deliver on its mandate.  Also, “I would like to appeal to all our partners in government, international agencies, organised private sector, members and other invited guests to be part of the activities lined up to mark the 50th Anniversary celebration. These include: lecture on industrialization in Africa, A 3-day Exhibition of Made in Nigeria Products, An evening with the Director General of World Trade Organization (WTO), the 5th Annual Manufacturers’ Conference, and MAN at 50 Dinner/Award Night. Additional details will be duly communicated to you through our various channels of communication.  As we toast to our 50th Anniversary of excellence and look forward to another glorious 50 years, I say Long Live the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Long Live the manufacturing sector, and Long Live the Federal Republic of Nigeria L-R: Senator Saidu Ahmed Alkali; Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo; President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engr. Mansur Ahmed; FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, and Director Technical Service Federal Ministry Finance Hajiya Fatima Hayatu, at the Symbolic Cake Cutting Ceremony to Mark the 50th Anniversary of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria held in Abuja yesterday  FRIDAY 7/5/2021  The 50 years of MAN was hybrid event, which means the cake cutting ceremony is holding simultaneously at our head office and 14 branch offices nationwide in commemoration of our golden jubilee.  Engr Ahmed said “The day, May 7th will remain special to us. As an Association, it marks our date of incorporation. It also marks the day Nigeria birthed a private sector led advocacy body for its manufacturing sector. From a humble beginning in 1971, MAN has evolved into the authentic voice of manufacturers in Nigeria – a credible platform for the private sector to formulate and articulate policy suggestions that complement government’s efforts in the overall interest of the economy. This could not have been possible without the long-standing commitment and immense support of our strategic partners, both local and international.”  