“Our strategy to increase our exposure to everyday product categories continues to yield positive results, enhancing the relevance of our marketplace for consumers”, commented Jeremy Hodara and Sacha Poignonnec, Co-Chief Executive Officers of Jumia  Africa’s ecommerce market leader, Jumia has released its quarter one 2021 report disclosed making significant inroads in payment and fintech, with 37% of Orders in the Q1 of 2021 completed using JumiaPay.  The report further revealed that Total Payment Volume on JumiaPay increased by 21% from €35.5million in the first quarter of 2020 to €42.9million in the first quarter of 2021. On a constant currency basis, TPV increased by 35% year-over-year. On-platform penetration of JumiaPay as a percentage of GMV increased to 26.0% in the first quarter of 2021 from18.7% in the first quarter of 2020.   FootNote: Gross Merchandise Volume or Value is a term used in online retailing to indicate a total sales monetary-value for merchandise sold through a particular marketplace over a certain time frame while Total Payment Volume or “TPV” is the value of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through a given Payments Platform, excluding transactions processed through the gateway products  JumiaPay Transactions increased by 7% from 2.3 million in the first quarter of 2020 to 2.4million in the first quarter of202.  Overall, 36.7% of Orders placed on the Jumia platform in the first quarter of 2021 were completed using JumiaPay, compared to 35.5% in the first quarter of 2020. Jumia Food and on-demand services accounted for 22% of orders and 9% of GMV in the first quarter of 2021.  In same vein, Jumia said it has made significant steps towards achieving the $10billion market capitalization needed.  “We have raised and used about $570m out of $10billion over the past 6 months to strengthening our balance sheet & increasing our strategic flexibility. We are confident we have all the right ingredients to continue to build a growing business across both our e-commerce and fintech activities.” Likewise, annual active consumers reached 6.9 million in the first quarter of 2021, up 7% year-over-year, as the platform continued to acquire new consumers and engage existing ones. Orders reached 6.6 million, up 3% year-over-year, a reversal of the declining trend observed over the prior two quarters. Jumia in the report showed 11% year-on-year gross profit increase, as adjusted EBITDA loss decreased by 24% year-over-year. The report by the company also showed a sixth consecutive quarter of positive Gross Profit After Fulfillment Expense, which reached €6.2 million, more than doubling YoY. According to Jumia, the report is a reflection of a solid progress towards profitability, with gradual monetization and cost discipline as major drivers. “Our first quarter results reflect solid progress towards profitability. The drivers remain consistent: selective and disciplined usage growth, gradual monetization and continued cost discipline. The first quarter of 2021 was the sixth consecutive quarter of positive gross profit after fulfillment expense, which reached €6.2million, more than doubling year-over-year, while Adjusted EBITDA loss contracted by 24% year-over-year, reaching €27.0 million. Our strategy to increase our exposure to everyday product categories continues to yield positive results, enhancing the relevance of our marketplace for consumers”, commented Jeremy Hodara and Sacha Poignonnec, Co-Chief Executive Officers of Jumia  Nevertheless, Jumia recorded operating loss of €33.7million in the first quarter of 2021 decreasing by 23% on a year-over-year basis demonstrating meaningful progress on the brand’s path to profitability. GMV was €165.0 million, down 13% on a year-over-year basis and 5% on a constant currency basis. 