As an advocate of a healthy sleep culture from the cradle, Mouka continues to raise awareness for the importance of quality sleep, especially in children, as this is necessary for sound physical and mental development. From Right: Yemisi Obadina, Brand Manager, Mouka; with Cole Adebukola, Apex Nurse/Assistant Director of Nursing; Oladipo Sessi, Adedotun, Chief Hospital Administrator; and Alabi Mistura Moromeke, Deputy Director, Physiotherapy; all of the Lagos Island Maternity Hospital, Lagos; at the donation of Mouka Dreamtime Baby Mattresses and Mats to babies born on this day, at the hospital, and in other nine states across the country, in commemoration of this year’s Children’s Day. Mouka led the innovation trail when it launched its Dreamtime range of children’s mattresses to bolster its stance on the importance of quality sleep for children. Dreamtime mattresses are water-resistant yet breathable, thereby keeping your child’s body cool and comfortable through the night. To celebrate this year’s children’s day, Mouka gave free Dreamtime baby mattresses and baby mats to each child born on May 27, in 14 hospitals across nine states of the country. The states include Lagos, Oyo, Osun, Edo, Rivers, Kano, Kaduna, Enugu, Plateau and Gombe. Nigeria’s leading manufacturer of mattresses, pillows and other bedding products partnered with the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP), with whom it enjoys an exclusive endorsement for this initiative. The presentations were made to the mothers of the new births by Mouka’s marketing/commercial team and the NSP at the Lagos Island Maternity Hospital (LIMH), Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Adeoyo Hospital in Oyo state, as well as Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTH) in Ile-Ife. From Left: Yemisi Obadina, Brand Manager, Mouka; with Oluwaseye Barakat, mother of one of the babies born on May 27 (Children’s Day); and Ntuemene Cordelia, Chief Nursing Officer, Lagos Island Maternity Hospital; at the donation of Mouka Dreamtime Baby Mattresses and Mats to babies born on this day, at the hospital, and in nine other states across the country, in commemoration of this year’s Children’s Day. Others are Edo Specialist Hospital in Benin City, Prime Medical Consultant and Ultimate Specialist Hospital in Port Harcourt, Aminu Kano Hospital Kano (AKTH), Barau Dikko General Hospital in Kaduna, Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH), and ECWA Hospital, Jan-kwano, in Jos, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, as well as Federal Medical Centre in Gombe. Speaking on the CSR initiative, Mouka’s Chief Commercial Officer, Dimeji Osingunwa, said the company remains committed to adding comfort to the life of Nigerians across all age segments. The CCO also spoke about the unique qualities of the Dreamtime mattresses, which were specially designed with children in mind. In addition to the water-resistant and breathable quality of the Dreamtime mattress, it is made with the right density of foam to guarantee the child’s comfort. Commending the laudable initiative, Mrs Oyegoke Adeduntan, Director of Nursing Services, who spoke on behalf of the Chief Medical Officer of LUTH, Professor Chris Bode, affirmed that the families well appreciated the gifts. She stated that the Mouka brand indeed cares for its consumers, which is evident in the gesture. “On behalf of the management of this hospital, I deeply appreciate Mouka for these gifts and l pray for the continuous growth of the company,” she stated.  Mouka foam donations received by the Chief Medical Director, Prof Obinna Onodugo; his CMAC, Dr Val Ugwu; and head of the new born unit, Dr Obu; all of the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital; President of the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP) was accompanied by the Head Physiotherapy Dept, UNTH, Dr Chinwe Obiekwe, PT; and the Chairman, NSP Enugu State chapter, Rev Dr Frank Obijuru; at the donation of Mouka Dreamtime Baby Mattresses and Mats to babies born on May 27 (Children’s Day), at the hospital, and in nine other states across the country, in commemoration of this year’s Children’s Day. The Medical Director, Lagos Island Maternity Hospital, Dr Olufemi Omololu, represented by Mrs Cole Adebukola, the Apex Nurse and Assistant Director of Nursing, also sang praises of the organisation as this was the second time Mouka was making such a donation to their hospital on children’s day. Also, speaking with smiles on their faces, the parents of the babies eulogised Mouka for the donation. In the past 61 years, Mouka has grown to become Nigeria’s preferred brand of mattresses, pillows and other bedding products. This has also earned the brand the exclusive endorsement by the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP) and the National Association of Orthopaedic Manual Therapists (NAOMT). Mouka has a portfolio of quality products such as Wellbeing orthopaedic mattresses, Mondeo Plus spring mattress, Royal luxury pillow top mattress, and a wide range of pillows to help Nigerians sleep well and wake up refreshed.