 … Train 1st batch of Ynspyre Project  Heritage Bank Plc, Nigeria most innovative banking service provider has joined forces with Silverbird Group to empower and deepen its supports to young entrepreneurs in the Nigeria creative and entertainment industry. L-R: Certificate recipients of Ynsprye Project- Oluwasegun Ikoya; Deborah Johnson; Ozena Utulu, Head, Brand Management and Sustainability Heritage Bank; Fela Ibidapo, Divisional Head, Corporate Communications; Uchenna Mike Olisa, Head Product Development, Heritage Bank; other recipients- Derrick Ugwuegbu; Ayomide Soloja and Abayomi Bello, during the graduation and Certificate presentation to the 1st batch of Project Ynspyre graduates, as the bank partners Silverbird Group in Lagos.  This, the bank said, is in line with its culture as timeless wealth partners, which would impact positively on the nation’s socio-economic development, as the graduates are empowered with job and mentorship opportunities at the Silverbird Group. During the first batch of the Ynspyre Project, Heritage Bank and Silverbird graduated five young talented minds in a three (3) months rigorously internship training programme to equip them with the necessary skills for their future engagements. Over 3000 people sent their entries but only five were picked and trained in their different field of choice. Amongst the lucky interns are: Derrick Ugwugbu–Reporter/Anchor; Deborah Johnson–Radio Presenter; Oluwasegun Emmanuel Ikoya–Disk Jockey (DJ); Ayomide Solaja–News Presenter and Abayomi Bello–Cinematographer. Speaking during the handover of certificate of completion, Fela Ibidapo, Divisional Head, Corporate Communications of Heritage Bank said as a forward looking financial institution its strength lays in the ability to spot and mould talents into great professionals. He noted that the Ynspyre Project was established to train, nurture and arm young employees with the right skills needed to fast-track development and enable talents to flourish. He urged prospective interns who have interest in participating in the Ynsprye Project to dial *745# to open a savings account with the chance to be amongst the next set of interns, whilst staying tune to Heritage Bank’s platform and Silverbird Television. Meanwhile, Ibidapo explained that the aim of Heritage Bank being at the forefront of youth empowerment is to emancipate the latent entrepreneurial spirit in the teeming youths to unleash their support to the growth of the economy. Ibidapo stated that being at the forefront of investing in human capital development for critical economy recovery, “we will continue to up our game to empower Nigerian youths who is one of the bedrock of any vibrant economy,” he added. He disclosed that one of the channels churned out in partnering the youths to leverage their talents and contribute their quota to the growth of the economy, was the use of financial inclusion strategy which would be adopted to boost entrepreneurship development, as this is critical to Heritage Bank’s mission to create, preserve and transfer wealth across generations. L-R: David Ubabudike, Head, Business Desk, Silverbird News 24; Ozena Utulu, Head, Brand Management and Sustainability, Heritage Bank; Fela Ibidapo, Divisional Head, Corporate Communications; Uchenna Mike Olisa, Head, Product Development, Heritage Bank, Seun Oyedeji, Silverbird News 24 and Jacob Akinyemi Johnson, Chief Creative Officer/Vice Chairman Editorial Board, Silverbird Communications, during the graduation of the 1st batch of Project Ynspyre graduates, as the bank partners Silverbird Group in Lagos.  Uchenna Mike Olisa, Head, Producgt Development, Heritage Bank, who admonished the trained entertainers to make good use of their acquired skills, affirmed that platform would enable young creative minds to be more imbued with the requisite talents. Mike Nwadike, Head, Silverbird Television hinted that lots of resources have gone into the training with series of creative sessions, strategy sessions, brainstorming meetings and re-evaluation, with the aim of ensuring that the participants are grounded in their respective skills. Iyke Chinke, Head of Programmes, Radio commended Heritage Bank for their continued efforts to empower youths in the country. According to him, it is hard to find banks out there to give young people the opportunity but Heritage Bank has been championing it.