According to the figures released by Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) Economic Bulletin released on May 5, 2021 showed the jury is out as to whether insecurity leads to inflation as output contracts or inflation leads to insurgency.  Insecurity – A cause or effect of high inflation Economists attribute heightened insecurity to rising poverty and misery levels. In Nigeria, the misery index, which is the summation of inflation and unemployment rates, increased to 51.47% from 34.54% in 2018.  However, analysts have attributed the current spike in inflation to heightened insecurity due to supply chain disruptions. There has been a surge in the rate of kidnappings, banditry and hijacks, which is fast spreading to the South West and South East. The raises the question of whether a casual relationship exists between inflation and insecurity.  The across states in-depth analysis shows that inflation is highest across the states predominantly in the North East, North West and North Central with kogi state hits 24.51%, follow by Bauchi with 22.24% and while Sokoto state took third with 20.7% in April headline inflation predicted to reach 18.77%  Inflation set to rise again FDC Economic Bulletin noted that when the NBS releases its inflation data on May 17, we are forecasting a major spike from the current level of 18.17% to 18.77%, an increase of 0.60%. This will put Nigeria amongst the top percentile of African countries with the highest level of inflation. The average rate of inflation in SSA is currently 8%, it was stressed.  “Our projections also show that core inflation will rise to 12.9% but month-on-month inflation will decline to 1.53% (annualized at 19.95%). The question therefore is whether inflation in Nigeria is transient, persistent or structural. Many economists argue that there cannot be persistent inflation when an economy is not at full employment. Some policy makers have attributed the current surge in inflation to output shocks and disruption to supply chain due to insecurity. Others have argued that headline inflation in Nigeria is transient and is caused mainly by money supply saturation. Our view is that when economic variables are transient for an extended period, it becomes persistent.”  Impact on policy makers  “In spite of the commodity super cycle and gradual economic recovery, most Central Banks have left their monetary policy rates unchanged. The US Fed, at its last meeting left its benchmark interest rates close to near zero (0-0.25%p.a) despite acknowledging that the US economy is accelerating and inflation is rising.  However, Nigeria might not have the luxury to leave its monetary policy stance unchanged for long. With inflation rising faster than expected, the MPC could lean towards the resumption of a tightening cycle by increasing the MPR by 25bps as a way of protecting the value of the naira in the forex market amongst other measures.”