Lumos, Africa’s leading solar home system provider in conjunction with Modion Communications, a fast-rising PR Agency in Africa, has won the Sabre Award for 2021 for it’s social PR campaign supporting indigent schoolgirl Fathia Dele Rasheed, from Ondo State, Southwest, Nigeria in February 2020. The African Sabre Award is the continent’s biggest prize for superior achievement in Public Relations and Corporate Social Responsibility. As part of the campaign, Lumos Nigeria tracked Dele after a picture of her doing her homework at night with illumination from an ATM facility surfaced on social media. The company installed a free Solar Home System (SHS) in Dele’s home within 48 hours after the social media reveal, enabling constant access to electricity for her and her family, using Lumos’ SHS.  The family joins over 100,000 household and small businesses in Nigeria already connected to Lumos. The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) intervention campaign tagged ‘Touching Lives Through A Determined School Child – Dele Fathia’ was adjudged as the overall best social campaign in Africa by the Sabre Awards jury, beating other top nominees from leading brands and companies in Kenya, Mauritius, and Uganda. Commenting on the recognition, the CEO of Lumos Nigeria, Mrs. Adepeju Adebajo, said; “When we saw the desire and determination of Dele Fathia to learn even in the face of difficulties and limitation of power supply, we concluded that it was critical for us to take action by providing our easy-to-install solar home system, allowing her and the family to enjoy the endless possibilities that come with constant power supply,” Mrs. Adebajo said. “We are thrilled to see that the campaign has inspired renewed awareness on the adoption of solar power as an affordable alternative to the perennial power supply deficit in Nigeria. We are pleased that this solution has now gone mainstream, with Nigeria’s government committed to providing 5 million Solar Home Systems to 25 million households as part of the country’s quick-win strategy to deliver electricity to more families. “We believe everyone has the right to a better quality of life offered by access to clean, affordable and reliable power. Lumos remains committed to powering one home, one business, one community at a time. It is also pleasing to see that we have inspired other players in the ecosystem, who are now willing to provide similar initiatives to indigent families in communities where power supply from the grid is either inadequate or available,” she added.  At the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, Lumos, in collaboration with All-On, installed solar-powered systems in isolation centres across the country as well as the installation of Solar home systems to over 147 primary health centers across Nigeria. This was in addition to installing its solar systems at Primary Health Centres across 20 Local Governments in Lagos State to help improve quality healthcare delivery to grassroots communities. ABOUT LUMOS: Lumos is a market-leading provider of high-quality solar home systems in Africa, designed to make reliable and clean power accessible to everyone. We combine easy to use technology with personalised service to power prosperity for millions of people. For more information, visit www.lumos.com.ng. The Captioned Photo: The Lumos Nigeria CEO, Adepeju Adebajo